NETWORKMANAGER.CONF(5)                              Configuration                              NETWORKMANAGER.CONF(5)

NAME
       NetworkManager.conf - NetworkManager configuration file

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf, /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/name.conf,
       /run/NetworkManager/conf.d/name.conf, /usr/lib/NetworkManager/conf.d/name.conf,
       /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager-intern.conf

DESCRIPTION
       NetworkManager.conf is the configuration file for NetworkManager. It is used to set up various aspects of
       NetworkManager's behavior. The location of the main file and configuration directories may be changed through
       use of the --config, --config-dir, --system-config-dir, and --intern-config argument for NetworkManager,
       respectively.

       If a default NetworkManager.conf is provided by your distribution's packages, you should not modify it, since
       your changes may get overwritten by package updates. Instead, you can add additional .conf files to the
       /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d directory. These will be read in order, with later files overriding earlier ones.
       Packages might install further configuration snippets to /usr/lib/NetworkManager/conf.d. This directory is
       parsed first, even before NetworkManager.conf. Scripts can also put per-boot configuration into
       /run/NetworkManager/conf.d. This directory is parsed second, also before NetworkManager.conf. The loading of a
       file /run/NetworkManager/conf.d/name.conf can be prevented by adding a file
       /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/name.conf. Likewise, a file /usr/lib/NetworkManager/conf.d/name.conf can be
       shadowed by putting a file of the same name to either /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d or
       /run/NetworkManager/conf.d.

       NetworkManager can overwrite certain user configuration options via D-Bus or other internal operations. In
       this case it writes those changes to /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager-intern.conf. This file is not
       intended to be modified by the user, but it is read last and can shadow user configuration from
       NetworkManager.conf.

       Certain settings from the configuration can be reloaded at runtime either by sending SIGHUP signal or via
       D-Bus' Reload call.

       NetworkManager does not require any configuration in NetworkManager.conf. Depending on your use case, you may
       remove all files to restore the default configuration (factory reset). But note that your distribution or
       other packages may drop configuration snippets for NetworkManager, such that they are part of the factory
       default.

FILE FORMAT
       The configuration file format is so-called key file (sort of ini-style format). It consists of sections
       (groups) of key-value pairs. Lines beginning with a '#' and blank lines are considered comments. Sections are
       started by a header line containing the section enclosed in '[' and ']', and ended implicitly by the start of
       the next section or the end of the file. Each key-value pair must be contained in a section.

       For keys that take a list of devices as their value, you can specify devices by their MAC addresses or
       interface names, or "*" to specify all devices. See the section called “Device List Format” below.

       A simple configuration file looks like this:

           [main]
           plugins=keyfile

       As an extension to the normal keyfile format, you can also append a value to a previously-set list-valued key
       by doing:

           plugins+=another-plugin
           plugins-=remove-me

MAIN SECTION
       plugins
           Lists system settings plugin names separated by ','. These plugins are used to read and write system-wide
           connection profiles. When multiple plugins are specified, the connections are read from all listed
           plugins. When writing connections, the plugins will be asked to save the connection in the order listed
           here; if the first plugin cannot write out that connection type (or can't write out any connections) the
           next plugin is tried, etc. If none of the plugins can save the connection, an error is returned to the
           user.

           The default value and the number of available plugins is distro-specific. See the section called “PLUGINS”
           below for the available plugins. Note that NetworkManager's native keyfile plugin is always appended to
           the end of this list (if it doesn't already appear earlier in the list).

       monitor-connection-files
           This setting is deprecated and has no effect. Profiles from disk are never automatically reloaded. Use for
           example nmcli connection (re)load for that.

       auth-polkit
           Whether the system uses PolicyKit for authorization. If true, non-root requests are authorized using
           PolicyKit. Requests from root (user ID zero) are always granted without asking PolicyKit. If false, all
           requests will be allowed and PolicyKit is not used. If set to root-only PolicyKit is not used and all
           requests except root are denied. The default value is true.

       dhcp
           This key sets up what DHCP client NetworkManager will use. Allowed values depend on build configuration;
           this version of NetworkManager was built with support for the following clients: internal.

           The internal client is built-in, while other options may require an external DHCP client to be installed.

           If this key is missing, internal is used with a fallback to other supported clients.

       no-auto-default
           Specify devices for which NetworkManager shouldn't create default wired connection (Auto eth0). By
           default, NetworkManager creates a temporary wired connection for any Ethernet device that is managed and
           doesn't have a connection configured. List a device in this option to inhibit creating the default
           connection for the device. May have the special value * to apply to all devices.

           When the default wired connection is deleted or saved to a new persistent connection by a plugin, the
           device is added to a list in the file /var/lib/NetworkManager/no-auto-default.state to prevent creating
           the default connection for that device again.

           See the section called “Device List Format” for the syntax how to specify a device.

           Example:

               no-auto-default=00:22:68:5c:5d:c4,00:1e:65:ff:aa:ee
               no-auto-default=eth0,eth1
               no-auto-default=*

       ignore-carrier
           This setting is deprecated for the per-device setting ignore-carrier which overwrites this setting if
           specified (See ignore-carrier). Otherwise, it is a list of matches to specify for which device carrier
           should be ignored. See the section called “Device List Format” for the syntax how to specify a device.
           Note that controller types like bond, bridge, and team ignore carrier by default. You can however revert
           that default using the "except:" specifier (or better, use the per-device setting instead of the
           deprecated setting).

       assume-ipv6ll-only
           Specify devices for which NetworkManager will try to generate a connection based on initial configuration
           when the device only has an IPv6 link-local address.

           See the section called “Device List Format” for the syntax how to specify a device.

       configure-and-quit
           This option is no longer useful to configure in NetworkManager.conf file. It can however also be
           configured on the command line with the same values, where it has some use.

           When set to 'initrd', NetworkManager does not connect to D-Bus and quits after configuring the network.
           This is an implementation detail how the NetworkManager module of dracut can run NetworkManager. An
           alternative to this is having NetworkManager as a systemd service with D-Bus in initrd.

           The value 'true' is unsupported since version 1.36. Previously this was a mode where NetworkManager would
           quit after configuring the network and run helper processes for DHCP and SLAAC.

           Otherwise, NetworkManager runs a system service with D-Bus and does not quit during normal operation.

       hostname-mode
           Set the management mode of the hostname. This parameter will affect only the transient hostname. If a
           valid static hostname is set, NetworkManager will skip the update of the hostname despite the value of
           this option. A hostname empty or equal to '(none)' is considered invalid.

           default: NetworkManager will update the hostname with the one provided via DHCP or reverse DNS lookup of
           the IP address on the connection with the default route or on any connection with the property
           hostname.only-from-default set to 'false'. Connections are considered in order of increasing value of the
           hostname.priority property. In case multiple connections have the same priority, connections activated
           earlier are considered first. If no hostname can be determined in such way, the hostname will be updated
           to the last one set outside NetworkManager or to 'localhost.localdomain'.

           dhcp: this is similar to 'default', with the difference that after trying to get the DHCP hostname,
           reverse DNS lookup is not done. Note that selecting this option is equivalent to setting the property
           'hostname.from-dns-lookup' to 'false' globally for all connections in NetworkManager.conf.

           none: NetworkManager will not manage the transient hostname and will never set it.

       dns
           Set the DNS processing mode.

           If the key is unspecified, default is used, unless /etc/resolv.conf is a symlink to
           /run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf, /run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf, /lib/systemd/resolv.conf or
           /usr/lib/systemd/resolv.conf. In that case, systemd-resolved is chosen automatically.

           default: NetworkManager will update /etc/resolv.conf to reflect the nameservers provided by currently
           active connections. The rc-manager setting (below) controls how this is done.

           dnsmasq: NetworkManager will run dnsmasq as a local caching nameserver, using "Conditional Forwarding" if
           you are connected to a VPN, and then update resolv.conf to point to the local nameserver. It is possible
           to pass custom options to the dnsmasq instance by adding them to files in the
           "/etc/NetworkManager/dnsmasq.d/" directory. Note that when multiple upstream servers are available,
           dnsmasq will initially contact them in parallel and then use the fastest to respond, probing again other
           servers after some time. This behavior can be modified passing the 'all-servers' or 'strict-order' options
           to dnsmasq (see the manual page for more details).

           systemd-resolved: NetworkManager will push the DNS configuration to systemd-resolved

           dnsconfd: NetworkManager will push the DNS configuration to dnsconfd

            and by default set ipvX.routed-dns to
                   yes, so servers are contacted through right interfaces.

                   none: NetworkManager will not modify resolv.conf. This implies rc-manager unmanaged

           Note that the plugins dnsmasq,systemd-resolved and dnsconfd are caching local nameservers. Hence, when
           NetworkManager writes /run/NetworkManager/resolv.conf and /etc/resolv.conf (according to rc-manager
           setting below), the name server there will be localhost only. NetworkManager also writes a file
           /run/NetworkManager/no-stub-resolv.conf that contains the original name servers pushed to the DNS plugin.

           When using dnsmasq,systemd-resolved and dnsconfd per-connection added dns servers will always be queried
           using the device the connection has been activated on.

       rc-manager
           Set the resolv.conf management mode. This option is about how NetworkManager writes to /etc/resolv.conf,
           if at all. The default value depends on NetworkManager build options, and this version of NetworkManager
           was built with a default of "auto". Regardless of this setting, NetworkManager will always write its
           version of resolv.conf to its runtime state directory as /run/NetworkManager/resolv.conf.

           If you configure dns=none or make /etc/resolv.conf immutable with chattr +i, NetworkManager will ignore
           this setting and always choose unmanaged (below).

           auto: if systemd-resolved plugin is configured via the dns setting or if it gets detected as main DNS
           plugin, NetworkManager will update systemd-resolved without touching /etc/resolv.conf. Alternatively, if
           resolvconf or netconfig are enabled at compile time and the respective binary is found, NetworkManager
           will automatically use it. Note that if you install or uninstall these binaries, you need to reload the
           rc-manager setting with SIGHUP or systemctl reload NetworkManager. As last fallback it uses the symlink
           option (see next).

           symlink: If /etc/resolv.conf is a regular file or does not exist, NetworkManager will write the file
           directly. If /etc/resolv.conf is instead a symlink, NetworkManager will leave it alone. Unless the symlink
           points to the internal file /run/NetworkManager/resolv.conf, in which case the symlink will be updated to
           emit an inotify notification. This allows the user to conveniently instruct NetworkManager not to manage
           /etc/resolv.conf by replacing it with a symlink.

           file: NetworkManager will write /etc/resolv.conf as regular file. If it finds a symlink to an existing
           target, it will follow the symlink and update the target instead. In no case will an existing symlink be
           replaced by a file. Note that older versions of NetworkManager behaved differently and would replace
           dangling symlinks with a plain file.

           resolvconf: NetworkManager will run resolvconf to update the DNS configuration.

           netconfig: NetworkManager will run netconfig to update the DNS configuration.

           unmanaged: don't touch /etc/resolv.conf.

           none: deprecated alias for symlink.

       systemd-resolved
           Additionally, send the connection DNS configuration to systemd-resolved. Defaults to "true".

           Note that this setting has no effect if the main dns plugin is already systemd-resolved. It is
           complementary to the dns setting to configure systemd-resolved alongside the main plugin.

           If systemd-resolved is enabled, either via this setting or the main DNS plugin, the connectivity check
           resolves the hostname per-device.

       debug
           Comma separated list of options to aid debugging. This value will be combined with the environment
           variable NM_DEBUG. Currently, the following values are supported:

           RLIMIT_CORE: set ulimit -c unlimited to write out core dumps. Beware, that a core dump can contain
           sensitive information such as passwords or configuration settings.

           fatal-warnings: set g_log_set_always_fatal() to core dump on warning messages from glib. This is
           equivalent to the --g-fatal-warnings command line option.

       autoconnect-retries-default
           The number of times a connection activation should be automatically tried before switching to another one.
           This value applies only to connections that can auto-connect and have a connection.autoconnect-retries
           property set to -1. If not specified, connections will be tried 4 times. Setting this value to 1 means to
           try activation once, without retry.

       firewall-backend
           The firewall backend for configuring masquerading with shared mode. Set to either iptables, nftables or
           none.  iptables and nftables require iptables and nft application, respectively.  none means to skip
           firewall configuration if the users wish to manage firewall themselves. If unspecified, it will be auto
           detected.

       iwd-config-path
           If the value is "auto" (the default), IWD is queried for its current state directory when it appears on
           D-Bus -- the directory where IWD keeps its network configuration files -- usually /var/lib/iwd.
           NetworkManager will then attempt to write copies of new or modified Wi-Fi connection profiles, converted
           into the IWD format, into this directory thus making IWD connection properties editable. NM will overwrite
           existing files without preserving their contents.

           The path can also be overridden by pointing to a specific existing and writable directory. On the other
           hand setting this to an empty string or any other value disables the profile conversion mechanism.

           This mechanism allows editing connection profile settings such as the 802.1x configuration using
           NetworkManager clients. Without it such changes have no effect in IWD.

       migrate-ifcfg-rh
           Whether NetworkManager tries to automatically convert any connection profile stored in ifcfg-rh format to
           the keyfile format. Support for ifcfg-rh is deprecated and will be eventually removed. If enabled, the
           migration is performed at every startup of the daemon. The default value is false.

KEYFILE SECTION
       This section contains keyfile-plugin-specific options, and is normally only used when you are not using any
       other distro-specific plugin.

       hostname
           This key is deprecated and has no effect since the hostname is now stored in /etc/hostname or other system
           configuration files according to build options.

       path
           The location where keyfiles are read and stored. This defaults to
           "/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections".

       rename
           NetworkManager automatically chooses a filename when storing a new profile to disk. That name depends on
           the profile's name (connection.id). When updating a profile's name, the file is not renamed to not break
           scripts that rely on the filename for the profile. By setting this option to "true", NetworkManager
           renames the keyfile on update of the profile, to follow the profile's name. This defaults to "false".

       unmanaged-devices
           Set devices that should be ignored by NetworkManager.

           A device unmanaged due to this option is strictly unmanaged and cannot be overruled by using the API like
           nmcli device set $IFNAME managed yes. Also, a device that is unmanaged for other reasons, like an udev
           rule, cannot be made managed with this option (e.g. by using an except: specifier). These two points make
           it different from the device*.managed option which for that reason may be a better choice.

           See the section called “Device List Format” for the syntax on how to specify a device.

           Example:

               unmanaged-devices=interface-name:em4
               unmanaged-devices=mac:00:22:68:1c:59:b1;mac:00:1E:65:30:D1:C4;interface-name:eth2

IFUPDOWN SECTION
       This section contains ifupdown-specific options and thus only has effect when using the ifupdown plugin.

       managed
           If set to true, then interfaces listed in /etc/network/interfaces are managed by NetworkManager. If set to
           false, then any interface listed in /etc/network/interfaces will be ignored by NetworkManager. Remember
           that NetworkManager controls the default route, so because the interface is ignored, NetworkManager may
           assign the default route to some other interface.

           The default value is false.

LOGGING SECTION
       This section controls NetworkManager's logging. Logging is very important to understand what NetworkManager is
       doing. When you report a bug, do not unnecessarily filter or limit the log file. Just enable level=TRACE and
       domains=ALL to collect everything.

       The recommended way for enabling logging is with a file /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/95-logging.conf that
       contains

           [logging]
           level=TRACE
           domains=ALL

       and restart the daemon with systemctl restart NetworkManager. Then reproduce the problem. You can find the
       logs in syslog (for example journalctl, or journalctl -u NetworkManager to show only logs from
       NetworkManager).

       Any settings here are overridden by the --log-level and --log-domains command-line options. Logging can also
       be reconfigured at runtime with nmcli general logging level "$LEVEL" domains "$DOMAINS". However, often it is
       interesting to get a complete log from the start. Especially, when debugging an issue, enable debug logging in
       NetworkManager.conf and restart the service to enable verbose logging early on.

       By setting nm.debug on the kernel command line (either from /run/NetworkManager/proc-cmdline or
       /proc/cmdline), debug logging is enabled. This overrides both the command-line options and the settings from
       NetworkManager.conf.

       NetworkManager's logging aims not to contain private sensitive data and you should be fine sharing the debug
       logs. Still, there will be IP addresses and your network setup, if you consider that private then review the
       log before sharing. However, try not to mangle the logfile in a way that distorts the meaning too much.

       NetworkManager uses syslog or systemd-journald, depending on configuration. In any case, debug logs are
       verbose and might be rate limited or filtered by the logging daemon. For systemd-journald, see
       RateLimitIntervalSec and RateLimitBurst in journald.conf manual for how to disable that.

       level
           The default logging verbosity level. One of OFF, ERR, WARN, INFO, DEBUG, TRACE, in order of verbosity.

           OFF disables all logging.  INFO is the default verbosity for regular operation.  TRACE is for debugging.

           The other levels are in most cases not useful. For example, DEBUG is between TRACE and INFO, but it's too
           verbose for regular operation and lacks possibly interesting messages for debugging. Almost always, when
           debugging an issue or reporting a bug, collect full level TRACE logs to get the full picture.

       domains
           Filter the messages by their topic. When debugging an issue, it's better to collect all logs (ALL domain)
           upfront. The unnecessary parts can always be ignored later.

           In the uncommon case to tune out certain topics, the following log domains are available: PLATFORM,
           RFKILL, ETHER, WIFI, BT, MB, DHCP4, DHCP6, PPP, WIFI_SCAN, IP4, IP6, AUTOIP4, DNS, VPN, SHARING,
           SUPPLICANT, AGENTS, SETTINGS, SUSPEND, CORE, DEVICE, OLPC, WIMAX, INFINIBAND, FIREWALL, ADSL, BOND, VLAN,
           BRIDGE, DBUS_PROPS, TEAM, CONCHECK, DCB, DISPATCH, AUDIT, SYSTEMD, VPN_PLUGIN, PROXY.

           In addition, these special domains can be used: NONE, ALL, DEFAULT, DHCP, IP.

           You can specify per-domain log level overrides by adding a colon and a log level to any domain. E.g.,
           "WIFI:DEBUG,WIFI_SCAN:OFF". Another example is ALL,VPN_PLUGIN:TRACE to enable all the logging there is
           (see about VPN_PLUGIN below).

           Domain descriptions:
               PLATFORM    : OS (platform) operations
               RFKILL      : RFKill subsystem operations
               ETHER       : Ethernet device operations
               WIFI        : Wi-Fi device operations
               BT          : Bluetooth operations
               MB          : Mobile broadband operations
               DHCP4       : DHCP for IPv4
               DHCP6       : DHCP for IPv6
               PPP         : Point-to-point protocol operations
               WIFI_SCAN   : Wi-Fi scanning operations
               IP4         : IPv4-related operations
               IP6         : IPv6-related operations
               AUTOIP4     : AutoIP operations
               DNS         : Domain Name System related operations
               VPN         : Virtual Private Network connections and operations
               SHARING     : Connection sharing. With TRACE level log queries for dnsmasq instance
               SUPPLICANT  : WPA supplicant related operations
               AGENTS      : Secret agents operations and communication
               SETTINGS    : Settings/config service operations
               SUSPEND     : Suspend/resume
               CORE        : Core daemon and policy operations
               DEVICE      : Activation and general interface operations
               OLPC        : OLPC Mesh device operations
               WIMAX       : WiMAX device operations
               INFINIBAND  : InfiniBand device operations
               FIREWALL    : FirewallD related operations
               ADSL        : ADSL device operations
               BOND        : Bonding operations
               VLAN        : VLAN operations
               BRIDGE      : Bridging operations
               DBUS_PROPS  : D-Bus property changes
               TEAM        : Teaming operations
               CONCHECK    : Connectivity check
               DCB         : Data Center Bridging (DCB) operations
               DISPATCH    : Dispatcher scripts
               AUDIT       : Audit records
               SYSTEMD     : Messages from internal libsystemd
               VPN_PLUGIN  : logging messages from VPN plugins
               PROXY       : logging messages for proxy handling

               NONE        : when given by itself logging is disabled
               ALL         : all log domains
               DEFAULT     : default log domains
               DHCP        : shortcut for "DHCP4,DHCP6"
               IP          : shortcut for "IP4,IP6"

               HW          : deprecated alias for "PLATFORM"

           In general, the logfile should not contain passwords or private data. However, you are always advised to
           check the file before posting it online or attaching to a bug report.  VPN_PLUGIN is special as it might
           reveal private information of the VPN plugins with verbose levels. Therefore this domain will be excluded
           when setting ALL or DEFAULT to more verbose levels then INFO.

       backend
           The logging backend. Supported values are "syslog" and "journal". When NetworkManager is started with
           "--debug" in addition all messages will be printed to stderr. If unspecified, the default is "journal".

       audit
           Whether the audit records are delivered to auditd, the audit daemon. If false, audit records will be sent
           only to the NetworkManager logging system. If set to true, they will be also sent to auditd. The default
           value is false.

CONNECTION SECTION
       Specify default values for connections.

       Such default values are only consulted if the corresponding per-connection property explicitly allows for
       that. That means, all these properties correspond to a property of the connection profile (for example
       connection.mud-url). Only if the per-profile property is set to a special value that indicates to use the
       default, the default value from NetworkManager.conf is consulted. It depends on the property, which is the
       special value that indicates fallback to the default, but it usually is something like empty, unset values or
       special numeric values like 0 or -1. That means the effectively used value can first always be configured for
       each profile, and these default values only matter if the per-profile values explicitly indicates to use the
       default from NetworkManager.conf.

       Note that while nmcli supports various aliases and convenience features for configuring properties, the
       settings in this section do not. For example, enum values usually only can be configured via their numeric
       magic number.

       Example:

           [connection]
           ipv6.ip6-privacy=0

   Supported Properties
       Not all properties can be overwritten, only the following properties are supported to have their default
       values configured (see nm-settings-nmcli(5) for details).

       802-1x.auth-timeout

       cdma.mtu

       connection.auth-retries
           If left unspecified, the default value is 3 tries before failing the connection.

       connection.autoconnect-ports

       connection.autoconnect-slaves
           This is deprecated, please use "connection.autoconnect-ports" instead.

       connection.down-on-poweroff
           Whether the connection will be brought down before the system is powered off.

       connection.ip-ping-addresses-require-all
           Whether it is sufficient for any ping check to succeed among the list of target addresses, or if all ping
           checks must succeed for the entire list of target addresses.

       connection.mud-url
           If unspecified, MUD URL defaults to "none".

       connection.lldp

       connection.llmnr
           If unspecified, the ultimate default values depends on the DNS plugin. With systemd-resolved the default
           currently is "yes" (2) and for all other plugins "no" (0).

       connection.mdns
           Currently only the systemd-resolve DNS plugin supports this setting. If the setting is unspecified both in
           the profile and in the global default here, then the default is determined by systemd-resolved. See
           MulticastDNS= in resolved.conf(5).

       connection.mptcp-flags
           If unspecified, the fallback is 0x22 ("enabled,subflow"). Note that if sysctl /proc/sys/net/mptcp/enabled
           is disabled, NetworkManager will still not configure endpoints.

       connection.dns-over-tls
           If unspecified, the ultimate default values depends on the DNS plugin. With systemd-resolved the default
           currently is global setting and for all other plugins "no" (0).

       connection.stable-id

       ethernet.cloned-mac-address
           If left unspecified, it defaults to "preserve".

       ethernet.generate-mac-address-mask

       ethernet.mtu
           If configured explicitly to 0, the MTU is not reconfigured during device activation unless it is required
           due to IPv6 constraints. If left unspecified, a DHCP/IPv6 SLAAC provided value is used or the MTU is not
           reconfigured during activation.

       ethernet.wake-on-lan

       gsm.mtu

       hostname.from-dhcp

       hostname.from-dns-lookup

       hostname.only-from-default

       hostname.priority

       infiniband.mtu
           If configured explicitly to 0, the MTU is not reconfigured during device activation unless it is required
           due to IPv6 constraints. If left unspecified, a DHCP/IPv6 SLAAC provided value is used or the MTU is left
           unspecified on activation.

       ip-tunnel.mtu
           If configured explicitly to 0, the MTU is not reconfigured during device activation unless it is required
           due to IPv6 constraints. If left unspecified, a DHCP/IPv6 SLAAC provided value is used or a default of
           1500.

       ipv4.forwarding
           Whether to configure IPv4 sysctl interface-specific forwarding. When enabled, the interface will act as a
           router to forward the IPv4 packet from one interface to another. If left unspecified, "auto" is used, so
           NetworkManager sets the IPv4 forwarding if any shared connection is active, or it will use the kernel
           default value otherwise. The "ipv4.forwarding" property is ignored when "ipv4.method" is set to "shared",
           because forwarding is always enabled in this case. The accepted values are: 0: disabled, 1: enabled, 2:
           auto, 3: ignored (leave the forwarding unchanged).

       ipv4.routed-dns

       ipv4.dad-timeout

       ipv4.dhcp-client-id

       ipv4.dhcp-dscp

       ipv4.dhcp-iaid
           If left unspecified, it defaults to "ifname".

       ipv4.dhcp-ipv6-only-preferred
           If left unspecified, the "IPv6-only preferred" DHCPv4 option is disabled.

       ipv4.dhcp-hostname-flags
           If left unspecified, the value 3 (fqdn-encoded,fqdn-serv-update) is used.

       ipv4.dhcp-send-hostname
           Whether a hostname is sent to the DHCP server when acquiring a lease. When the property is not specified
           in the connection, the global value from NetworkManager configuration is looked up. If the global value is
           not set, the value from ipv4.dhcp-send-hostname-deprecated, which defaults to true, is used for backwards
           compatibility. In the future this will change and, in absence of a global default, it will always fallback
           to true.

       ipv4.dhcp-send-release
           Whether the DHCP client will send RELEASE message when bringing the connection down.

       ipv4.dhcp-timeout
           If left unspecified, the default value for the interface type is used.

       ipv4.dhcp-vendor-class-identifier
           If left unspecified, the default is to not send the DHCP option to the server.

       ipv4.dns-priority
           If unspecified or zero, use 50 for VPN profiles and 100 for other profiles.

       ipv4.required-timeout

       ipv4.link-local
           If left unspecified, fallback to "auto" which makes it dependent on "ipv4.method" setting.

       ipv4.route-metric

       ipv4.route-table
           If left unspecified, routes are only added to the main table. Note that this is different from explicitly
           selecting the main table 254, because of how NetworkManager removes extraneous routes from the tables.

       ipv6.routed-dns

       ipv6.addr-gen-mode
           If the per-profile setting is either "default" or "default-or-eui64", the global default is used. If the
           default is unspecified, the fallback value is either "stable-privacy" or "eui64", depending on whether the
           per-profile setting is "default" or "default-or-eui64, respectively.

       ipv6.ra-timeout
           If left unspecified, the default value depends on the sysctl solicitation settings.

       ipv6.dhcp-duid
           If left unspecified, it defaults to "lease".

       ipv6.dhcp-iaid
           If left unspecified, it defaults to "ifname".

       ipv6.dhcp-hostname-flags
           If left unspecified, the value 1 (fqdn-serv-update) is used.

       ipv6.dhcp-send-hostname
           Whether a hostname is sent to the DHCP server when acquiring a lease. When the property is not specified
           in the connection, the global value from NetworkManager configuration is looked up. If the global value is
           not set, the value from ipv6.dhcp-send-hostname-deprecated, which defaults to true, is used for backwards
           compatibility. In the future this will change and, in absence of a global default, it will always fallback
           to true.

       ipv6.dhcp-send-release
           Whether the DHCP client will send RELEASE message when bringing the connection down.

       ipv6.dhcp-timeout
           If left unspecified, the default value for the interface type is used.

       ipv6.dns-priority
           If unspecified or zero, use 50 for VPN profiles and 100 for other profiles.

       ipv6.ip6-privacy
           If ipv6.ip6-privacy is unset, use the content of "/proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/default/use_tempaddr" as last
           fallback.

       ipv6.temp-valid-lifetime
           If ipv6.temp-valid-lifetime is unset, use the content of "/proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/default/temp_valid_lft"
           as last fallback.

       ipv6.temp-preferred-lifetime
           If ipv6.temp-preferred-lifetime is unset, use the content of
           "/proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/default/temp_prefered_lft" as last fallback.

       ipv6.required-timeout

       ipv6.route-metric

       ipv6.route-table
           If left unspecified, routes are only added to the main table. Note that this is different from explicitly
           selecting the main table 254, because of how NetworkManager removes extraneous routes from the tables.

       loopback.mtu
           If configured explicitly to 0, the MTU is not reconfigured during device activation unless it is required
           due to IPv6 constraints. If left unspecified, a DHCP/IPv6 SLAAC provided value is used or the MTU is left
           unspecified on activation.

       macsec.offload

       sriov.autoprobe-drivers
           If left unspecified, drivers are autoprobed when the SR-IOV VF gets created.

       sriov.preserve-on-down
           Set to 0 or 1 to select whether the SR-IOV parameters are preserved when the connection is deactivated. If
           left unspecified, default to 0 (parameters are not preserved).

       vpn.timeout
           If left unspecified, default value of 60 seconds is used.

       wifi.ap-isolation
           If left unspecified, AP isolation is disabled.

       wifi.cloned-mac-address
           If left unspecified, it defaults to "preserve".

       wifi.generate-mac-address-mask

       wifi.mac-address-randomization
           If left unspecified, MAC address randomization is disabled. This setting is deprecated for
           wifi.cloned-mac-address.

       wifi.mtu
           If configured explicitly to 0, the MTU is not reconfigured during device activation unless it is required
           due to IPv6 constraints. If left unspecified, a DHCP/IPv6 SLAAC provided value is used or a default of
           1500.

       wifi.powersave
           If left unspecified, the default value "ignore" will be used.

       wifi-sec.pmf
           If left unspecified, the default value "optional" will be used.

       wifi-sec.fils
           If left unspecified, the default value "optional" will be used.

       wifi.wake-on-wlan

       wireguard.mtu

   Sections
       You can configure multiple connection sections, by having different sections with a name that all start with
       "connection". Example:

           [connection]
           ipv6.ip6-privacy=0
           connection.autoconnect-ports=1
           vpn.timeout=120

           [connection-wifi-wlan0]
           match-device=interface-name:wlan0
           ipv4.route-metric=50

           [connection-wifi-other]
           match-device=type:wifi
           ipv4.route-metric=55
           ipv6.ip6-privacy=1

       The sections within one file are considered in order of appearance, with the exception that the [connection]
       section is always considered last. In the example above, this order is [connection-wifi-wlan0],
       [connection-wlan-other], and [connection]. When checking for a default configuration value, the sections are
       searched until the requested value is found. In the example above, "ipv4.route-metric" for wlan0 interface is
       set to 50, and for all other Wi-Fi typed interfaces to 55. Also, Wi-Fi devices would have IPv6 private
       addresses enabled by default, but other devices would have it disabled. Note that also "wlan0" gets
       "ipv6.ip6-privacy=1", because although the section "[connection-wifi-wlan0]" matches the device, it does not
       contain that property and the search continues.

       When having different sections in multiple files, sections from files that are read later have higher
       priority. So within one file the priority of the sections is top-to-bottom. Across multiple files later
       definitions take precedence.

       The following properties further control how a connection section applies.

       match-device
           An optional device spec that restricts when the section applies. See the section called “Device List
           Format” for the possible values.

       stop-match
           An optional boolean value which defaults to no. If the section matches (based on match-device), further
           sections will not be considered even if the property in question is not present. In the example above, if
           [connection-wifi-wlan0] would have stop-match set to yes, the device wlan0 would have ipv6.ip6-privacy
           property unspecified. That is, the search for the property would not continue in the connection sections
           [connection-wifi-other] or [connection].

DEVICE SECTION
       Contains per-device persistent configuration.

       Example:

           [device]
           match-device=interface-name:eth3
           managed=1

   Supported Properties
       The following properties can be configured per-device.

       managed
           Whether the device is managed or not. A device can be marked as managed via udev rules
           (ENV{NM_UNMANAGED}), or via setting plugins (keyfile.unmanaged-devices). This is yet another way. Note
           that this configuration can be overruled at runtime via D-Bus. Also, it has higher priority then udev
           rules.

       carrier-wait-timeout
           Specify the timeout for waiting for carrier in milliseconds. The default is 6000 milliseconds. This
           setting exists because certain drivers/hardware can take a long time to detect whether the cable is
           plugged in.

           When the device loses carrier, NetworkManager does not react immediately. Instead, it waits for this
           timeout before considering the link lost.

           Also, on startup, NetworkManager considers the device as busy for this time, as long as the device has no
           carrier. This delays startup-complete signal and NetworkManager-wait-online. Configuring this too high
           means to block NetworkManager-wait-online longer than necessary when booting with cable unplugged.
           Configuring it too low, means that NetworkManager will declare startup-complete too soon, although carrier
           is about to come and auto-activation to kick in. Note that if a profile only has static IP configuration
           or Layer 3 configuration disabled, then it can already autoconnect without carrier on the device. Once
           such a profile reaches full activated state, startup-complete is considered as reached even if the device
           has no carrier yet.

       ignore-carrier
           Specify devices for which NetworkManager will (partially) ignore the carrier state. Normally, for device
           types that support carrier-detect, such as Ethernet and InfiniBand, NetworkManager will only allow a
           connection to be activated on the device if carrier is present (ie, a cable is plugged in), and it will
           deactivate the device if carrier drops for more than a few seconds.

           A device with carrier ignored will allow activating connections on that device even when it does not have
           carrier, provided that the connection uses only statically-configured IP addresses. Additionally, it will
           allow any active connection (whether static or dynamic) to remain active on the device when carrier is
           lost.

           Note that the "carrier" property of NMDevices and device D-Bus interfaces will still reflect the actual
           device state; it's just that NetworkManager will not make use of that information.

           Master types like bond, bridge and team ignore carrier by default, while other device types react on
           carrier changes by default.

           This setting overwrites the deprecated main.ignore-carrier setting above.

       keep-configuration
           On startup, NetworkManager tries to not interfere with interfaces that are already configured. It does so
           by generating a in-memory connection based on the interface current configuration.

           If this generated connection matches one of the existing persistent connections, the persistent connection
           gets activated. If there is no match, the generated connection gets activated as "external", which means
           that the connection is considered as active, but NetworkManager doesn't actually touch the interface.

           It is possible to disable this behavior by setting keep-configuration to no. In this way, on startup
           NetworkManager always tries to activate the most suitable persistent connection (the one with highest
           autoconnect-priority or, in case of a tie, the one activated most recently).

           Note that when NetworkManager gets restarted, it stores the previous state in /run/NetworkManager; in
           particular it saves the UUID of the connection that was previously active so that it can be activated
           again after the restart. Therefore, keep-configuration does not have any effect on service restart.

       allowed-connections
           A list of connections that can be activated on the device. See the section called “Connection List Format”
           for the syntax to specify a connection. If this option is not specified, all connections can be
           potentially activated on the device, provided that the connection type and other settings match.

           A notable use case for this is to filter which connections can be activated based on how they were
           created; see the origin keyword in the section called “Connection List Format”.

       wifi.scan-rand-mac-address
           Configures MAC address randomization of a Wi-Fi device during scanning. This defaults to yes in which case
           a random, locally-administered MAC address will be used. The setting wifi.scan-generate-mac-address-mask
           can be used to influence the generated MAC address to use certain vendor OUIs. If disabled, the MAC
           address during scanning is left unchanged to whatever is configured. For the configured MAC address while
           the device is associated, see instead the per-connection setting wifi.cloned-mac-address.

       wifi.backend
           Specify the Wi-Fi backend used for the device. Currently, supported are wpa_supplicant and iwd
           (experimental). If unspecified, the default is "wpa_supplicant".

       wifi.scan-generate-mac-address-mask
           Like the per-connection settings ethernet.generate-mac-address-mask and wifi.generate-mac-address-mask,
           this can be used to configure the generated MAC addresses during scanning. See nm-settings-nmcli(5) for
           details.

       wifi.iwd.autoconnect
           If wifi.backend is iwd, setting this to false forces IWD's autoconnect mechanism to be disabled for this
           device and connections will only be initiated by NetworkManager whether commanded by a client or
           automatically. Leaving it true (default) stops NetworkManager from automatically initiating connections
           and allows IWD to use its network ranking and scanning logic to decide the best networks to autoconnect to
           next. Connections' autoconnect-priority, autoconnect-retries settings will be ignored. Other settings like
           permissions or multi-connect may interfere with IWD connection attempts.

       sriov-num-vfs
           Specify the number of virtual functions (VF) to enable for a PCI physical device that supports single-root
           I/O virtualization (SR-IOV).

   Sections
       The [device] section works the same as the [connection] section. That is, multiple sections that all start
       with the prefix "device" can be specified. The settings "match-device" and "stop-match" are available to match
       a device section on a device. The order of multiple sections is also top-down within the file and later files
       overwrite previous settings. See “Sections” under the section called “CONNECTION SECTION” for details.

CONNECTIVITY SECTION
       This section controls NetworkManager's optional connectivity checking functionality. This allows
       NetworkManager to detect whether or not the system can actually access the internet or whether it is behind a
       captive portal.

       Connectivity checking serves two purposes. For one, it exposes a connectivity state on D-Bus, which other
       applications may use. For example, Gnome's portal helper uses this as signal to show a captive portal login
       page. The other use is that default-route of devices without global connectivity get a penalty of +20000 to
       the route-metric. This has the purpose to give a better default-route to devices that have global
       connectivity. For example, when being connected to WWAN and to a Wi-Fi network which is behind a captive
       portal, WWAN still gets preferred until login.

       Note that your distribution might set /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/*/rp_filter to strict filtering. That works
       badly with per-device connectivity checking, which uses SO_BINDDEVICE to send requests on all devices. A
       strict rp_filter setting will reject any response and the connectivity check on all but the best route will
       fail.

       enabled
           Whether connectivity check is enabled. Note that to enable connectivity check, a valid uri must also be
           configured. The value defaults to true, but since the uri is unset by default, connectivity check may be
           disabled. The main purpose of this option is to have a single flag to disable connectivity check. Note
           that this setting can also be set via D-Bus API at runtime. In that case, the value gets stored in
           /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager-intern.conf file.

       uri
           The URI of a web page to periodically request when connectivity is being checked. This page should return
           the header "X-NetworkManager-Status" with a value of "online". Alternatively, its body content should be
           set to "NetworkManager is online". The body content check can be controlled by the response option. If
           this option is blank or missing, connectivity checking is disabled.

       interval
           Specified in seconds; controls how often connectivity is checked when a network connection exists. If set
           to 0 connectivity checking is disabled. If missing, the default is 300 seconds.

       timeout
           Specified in seconds; controls how long to wait for a response before connectivity is marked as limited.
           If missing, the default is 20 seconds.

       response
           If set, controls what body content NetworkManager checks for when requesting the URI for connectivity
           checking. Note that this only compares that the HTTP response starts with the specified text, it does not
           compare the exact string. This behavior might change in the future, so avoid relying on it. If missing,
           the response defaults to "NetworkManager is online". If set to empty, the HTTP server is expected to
           answer with status code 204 or send no data.

GLOBAL-DNS SECTION
       This section specifies DNS settings that are applied globally, in addition to connection-specific ones.

       searches
           A list of search domains to be used during hostname lookup.

       options
           A list of options to be passed to the hostname resolver.

       resolve-mode
           String indicating how DNS servers retrieved from global configuration and connections should be used.
           backup - Indicates that they can be freely merged and used for the same purposes.  prefer - Forbids DNS
           servers retrieved from connections to be used for general queries that are not subdomains of domains set
           by connection.  exclusive - Forbids use of connection DNS servers for any query. Currently relevant only
           for Dnsconfd plugin.

       certification-authority
           String specifying absolute path to bundle of CA certificates that must be used for validation of
           certificates presented by DNS servers when encrypted DNS is used. Currently relevant only for Dnsconfd
           plugin.

GLOBAL-DNS-DOMAIN SECTIONS
       Sections with a name starting with the "global-dns-domain-" prefix allow one to define global DNS
       configuration for specific domains. The part of section name after "global-dns-domain-" specifies the domain
       name a section applies to (for example, a section could be named "global-dns-domain-foobar.com"). More
       specific domains have the precedence over less specific ones and the default domain is represented by the
       wildcard "*". To be valid, global DNS domains must include a section for the default domain "*". When the
       global DNS domains are valid, the name servers and domains defined globally override the ones from active
       connections.

       servers
           A list of addresses of DNS servers to be used for the given domain. Each server can be specified either as
           a plain IP address or with a URI syntax. When it is specified as an URI, the following forms are
           supported:

               dns+udp://ADDRESS[:PORT]                 : DNS
               dns+tls://ADDRESS[:PORT][#SERVERNAME]    : DNS over TLS

           ADDRESS is an IPv4 or IPv6 address. When it is IPv6, it must be enclosed in square brackets ('[' and ']').
           When it is a IPv6 link-local address, the address should be followed by a percent sign ('%') and an
           interface name.

       options
           A list of domain-specific DNS options. Not used at the moment.

.CONFIG SECTIONS
       This is a special section that contains options which apply to the configuration file that contains the
       option.

       enable
           Defaults to "true". If "false", the configuration file will be skipped during loading. Note that the main
           configuration file NetworkManager.conf cannot be disabled.

               # always skip loading the config file
               [.config]
               enable=false

           You can also match against the version of NetworkManager. For example the following are valid
           configurations:

               # only load on version 1.0.6
               [.config]
               enable=nm-version:1.0.6

               # load on all versions 1.0.x, but not 1.2.x
               [.config]
               enable=nm-version:1.0

               # only load on versions >= 1.1.6. This does not match
               # with version 1.2.0 or 1.4.4. Only the last digit is considered.
               [.config]
               enable=nm-version-min:1.1.6

               # only load on versions >= 1.2. Contrary to the previous
               # example, this also matches with 1.2.0, 1.2.10, 1.4.4, etc.
               [.config]
               enable=nm-version-min:1.2

               # Match against the maximum allowed version. The example matches
               # versions 1.2.0, 1.2.2, 1.2.4. Again, only the last version digit
               # is allowed to be smaller. So this would not match on 1.1.10.
               [.config]
               enable=nm-version-max:1.2.6

           You can also match against the value of the environment variable NM_CONFIG_ENABLE_TAG, like:

               # only load the file when running NetworkManager with
               # environment variable "NM_CONFIG_ENABLE_TAG=TAG1"
               [.config]
               enable=env:TAG1

           More then one match can be specified. The configuration will be enabled if one of the predicates matches
           ("or"). The special prefix "except:" can be used to negate the match. Note that if one except-predicate
           matches, the entire configuration will be disabled. In other words, a except predicate always wins over
           other predicates. If the setting only consists of "except:" matches and none of the negative conditions
           are satisfied, the configuration is still enabled.

               # enable the configuration either when the environment variable
               # is present or the version is at least 1.2.0.
               [.config]
               enable=env:TAG2,nm-version-min:1.2

               # enable the configuration for version >= 1.2.0, but disable
               # it when the environment variable is set to "TAG3"
               [.config]
               enable=except:env:TAG3,nm-version-min:1.2

               # enable the configuration on >= 1.3, >= 1.2.6, and >= 1.0.16.
               # Useful if a certain feature is only present since those releases.
               [.config]
               enable=nm-version-min:1.3,nm-version-min:1.2.6,nm-version-min:1.0.16

PLUGINS
       Settings plugins for reading and writing connection profiles. The number of available plugins is distribution
       specific.

       keyfile
           The keyfile plugin is the generic plugin that supports all the connection types and capabilities that
           NetworkManager has. It writes files out in an .ini-style format in /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections.
           See nm-settings-keyfile(5) for details about the file format.

           The stored connection file may contain passwords, secrets and private keys in plain text, so it will be
           made readable only to root, and the plugin will ignore files that are readable or writable by any user or
           group other than root. See "Secret flag types" in nm-settings-nmcli(5) for how to avoid storing passwords
           in plain text.

           This plugin is always active, and will automatically be used to store any connections that aren't
           supported by any other active plugin.

       ifcfg-rh
           This plugin is now deprecated; it can be used on the Fedora and Red Hat Enterprise Linux distributions to
           read and write configuration from the standard /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-* files. It currently
           supports reading Ethernet, Wi-Fi, InfiniBand, VLAN, Bond, Bridge, and Team connections. Enabling ifcfg-rh
           implicitly enables ibft plugin, if it is available. This can be disabled by adding no-ibft. See
           /usr/share/doc/initscripts/sysconfig.txt and nm-settings-ifcfg-rh(5) for more information about the ifcfg
           file format.

       ifupdown
           This plugin is used on the Debian and Ubuntu distributions, and reads Ethernet and Wi-Fi connections from
           /etc/network/interfaces.

           This plugin is read-only; any connections (of any type) added from within NetworkManager when you are
           using this plugin will be saved using the keyfile plugin instead.

       ibft, no-ibft
           These plugins are deprecated and their selection has no effect. This is now handled by
           nm-initrd-generator.

       ifcfg-suse, ifnet
           These plugins are deprecated and their selection has no effect. The keyfile plugin should be used instead.

APPENDIX
   Device List Format
       The configuration options main.no-auto-default, main.ignore-carrier, keyfile.unmanaged-devices,
       connection*.match-device and device*.match-device select devices based on a list of matchings. Devices can be
       specified using the following format:

       *
           Matches every device.

       IFNAME
           Case sensitive match of interface name of the device. Globbing is not supported.

       HWADDR
           Match the permanent MAC address of the device. Globbing is not supported

       interface-name:IFNAME, interface-name:~IFNAME
           Case sensitive match of interface name of the device. Simple globbing is supported with * and ?. Ranges
           and escaping is not supported.

       interface-name:=IFNAME
           Case sensitive match of interface name of the device. Globbing is disabled and IFNAME is taken literally.

       mac:HWADDR
           Match the permanent MAC address of the device. Globbing is not supported

       s390-subchannels:HWADDR
           Match the device based on the subchannel address. Globbing is not supported

       type:TYPE
           Match the device type. Valid type names are as reported by "nmcli -f GENERAL.TYPE device show". Globbing
           is not supported.

       driver:DRIVER
           Match the device driver as reported by "nmcli -f GENERAL.DRIVER,GENERAL.DRIVER-VERSION device show".
           "DRIVER" must match the driver name exactly and does not support globbing. Optionally, a driver version
           may be specified separated by '/'. Globbing is supported for the version.

       dhcp-plugin:DHCP
           Match the configured DHCP plugin "main.dhcp".

       except:SPEC
           Negative match of a device.  SPEC must be explicitly qualified with a prefix such as interface-name:. A
           negative match has higher priority then the positive matches above.

           If there is a list consisting only of negative matches, the behavior is the same as if there is also
           match-all. That means, if none of all the negative matches is satisfied, the overall result is still a
           positive match. That means, "except:interface-name:eth0" is the same as "*,except:interface-name:eth0".

       SPEC[,;]SPEC
           Multiple specs can be concatenated with commas or semicolons. The order does not matter as matches are
           either inclusive or negative (except:), with negative matches having higher priority.

           Backslash is supported to escape the separators ';' and ',', and to express special characters such as
           newline ('\n'), tabulator ('\t'), whitespace ('\s') and backslash ('\\'). The globbing of interface names
           cannot be escaped. Whitespace is not a separator but will be trimmed between two specs (unless escaped as
           '\s').

       Example:

           interface-name:em4
           mac:00:22:68:1c:59:b1;mac:00:1E:65:30:D1:C4;interface-name:eth2
           interface-name:vboxnet*,except:interface-name:vboxnet2
           *,except:mac:00:22:68:1c:59:b1

   Connection List Format
       Connections can be specified using the following format:

       *
           Matches every connection.

       uuid:UUID
           Match the connection by UUID, for example "uuid:83037490-1d17-4986-a397-01f1db3a7fc2"

       id:ID
           Match the connection by name.

       origin:ORIGIN
           Match the connection by origin, stored in the org.freedesktop.NetworkManager.origin tag of the user
           setting. For example, use "except:origin:nm-initrd-generator" to forbid activation of connections created
           by the initrd generator.

       except:SPEC
           Negative match of a connection. A negative match has higher priority then the positive matches above.

           If there is a list consisting only of negative matches, the behavior is the same as if there is also
           match-all. That means, if none of all the negative matches is satisfied, the overall result is still a
           positive match.

       SPEC[,;]SPEC
           Multiple specs can be concatenated with commas or semicolons. The order does not matter as matches are
           either inclusive or negative (except:), with negative matches having higher priority.

           Backslash is supported to escape the separators ';' and ',', and to express special characters such as
           newline ('\n'), tabulator ('\t'), whitespace ('\s') and backslash ('\\'). Whitespace is not a separator
           but will be trimmed between two specs (unless escaped as '\s').

SEE ALSO
       NetworkManager(8), nmcli(1), nmcli-examples(7), nm-online(1), nm-settings-nmcli(5), nm-applet(1), nm-
       connection-editor(1)

NetworkManager 1.54.0                                                                          NETWORKMANAGER.CONF(5)
