nscd.conf(5)                                     File Formats Manual                                     nscd.conf(5)

NAME
       nscd.conf - name service cache daemon configuration file

DESCRIPTION
       The file /etc/nscd.conf is read from nscd(8) at startup.  Each line specifies either an attribute and a value,
       or an attribute, service, and a value.  Fields are separated either by SPACE or TAB characters.  A '#' (number
       sign)  indicates  the  beginning of a comment; following characters, up to the end of the line, are not inter‐
       preted by nscd.

       Valid services are passwd, group, hosts, services, or netgroup.

       logfile debug-file-name
              Specifies name of the file to which debug info should be written.

       debug-level value
              Sets the desired debug level.  0 hides debug info.  1 shows general debug info.  2  additionally  shows
              data in cache dumps.  3 (and above) shows all debug info.  The default is 0.

       threads number
              This  is  the  initial  number of threads that are started to wait for requests.  At least five threads
              will always be created.  The number of threads may increase dynamically up to max-threads  in  response
              to demand from clients, but never decreases.

       max-threads number
              Specifies the maximum number of threads.  The default is 32.

       server-user user
              If  this option is set, nscd will run as this user and not as root.  If a separate cache for every user
              is used (-S parameter), this option is ignored.

       stat-user user
              Specifies the user who is allowed to request statistics.

       reload-count unlimited | number
              Sets a limit on the number of times a cached entry gets reloaded without being used before it gets  re‐
              moved.  The limit can take values ranging from 0 to 254; values 255 or higher behave the same as unlim‐
              ited.   Limit values can be specified in either decimal or hexadecimal with a "0x" prefix.  The special
              value unlimited is case-insensitive.  The default limit is 5.  A limit of 0  turns  off  the  reloading
              feature.  See NOTES below for further discussion of reloading.

       paranoia <yes|no>
              Enabling paranoia mode causes nscd to restart itself periodically.  The default is no.

       restart-interval time
              Sets  the  restart  interval  to time seconds if periodic restart is enabled by enabling paranoia mode.
              The default is 3600.

       enable-cache service <yes|no>
              Enables or disables the specified service cache.  The default is no.

       positive-time-to-live service value
              Sets the TTL (time-to-live) for positive entries (successful queries) in the specified cache  for  ser‐
              vice.  Value is in seconds.  Larger values increase cache hit rates and reduce mean response times, but
              increase  problems with cache coherence.  Note that for some name services (including specifically DNS)
              the TTL returned from the name service is used and this attribute is ignored.

       negative-time-to-live service value
              Sets the TTL (time-to-live) for negative entries (unsuccessful queries) in the specified cache for ser‐
              vice.  Value is in seconds.  Can result in significant performance improvements if  there  are  several
              files  owned by UIDs (user IDs) not in system databases (for example untarring the Linux kernel sources
              as root); should be kept small to reduce cache coherency problems.

       suggested-size service value
              This is the internal hash table size, value should remain a prime number for optimum  efficiency.   The
              default is 211.

       check-files service <yes|no>
              Enables  or  disables  checking the file belonging to the specified service for changes.  The files are
              /etc/passwd, /etc/group, /etc/hosts, /etc/resolv.conf, /etc/services, and /etc/netgroup.   The  default
              is yes.

       persistent service <yes|no>
              Keep  the content of the cache for service over server restarts; useful when paranoia mode is set.  The
              default is no.

       shared service <yes|no>
              The memory mapping of the nscd databases for service is shared with the clients so that  they  can  di‐
              rectly  search  in  them instead of having to ask the daemon over the socket each time a lookup is per‐
              formed.  The default is no.  Note that a cache miss will still result in asking  the  daemon  over  the
              socket.

       max-db-size service bytes
              The maximum allowable size, in bytes, of the database files for the service.  The default is 33554432.

       auto-propagate service <yes|no>
              When  set to no for passwd or group service, then the .byname requests are not added to passwd.byuid or
              group.bygid cache.  This can help with tables containing multiple records for the same ID.  The default
              is yes.  This option is valid only for services passwd and group.

NOTES
       The default values stated in this manual page originate from the source code of nscd(8) and are  used  if  not
       overridden  in the configuration file.  The default values used in the configuration file of your distribution
       might differ.

   Reloading
       nscd(8) has a feature called reloading, whose behavior can be surprising.

       Reloading is enabled when the reload-count attribute has a non-zero value.  The default value  in  the  source
       code enables reloading, although your distribution may differ.

       When  reloading  is  enabled, positive cached entries (the results of successful queries) do not simply expire
       when their TTL is up.  Instead, at the expiry time, nscd will "reload", i.e., re-issue to the name service the
       same query that created the cached entry, to get a new value to cache.  Depending on  /etc/nsswitch.conf  this
       may mean that a DNS, LDAP, or NIS request is made.  If the new query is successful, reloading will repeat when
       the  new value would expire, until reload-count reloads have happened for the entry, and only then will it ac‐
       tually be removed from the cache.  A request from a client which hits the entry will reset the reload  counter
       on the entry.  Purging the cache using nscd -i overrides the reload logic and removes the entry.

       Reloading has the effect of extending cache entry TTLs without compromising on cache coherency, at the cost of
       additional load on the backing name service.  Whether this is a good idea on your system depends on details of
       your applications' behavior, your name service, and the effective TTL values of your cache entries.  Note that
       for  some  name services (for example, DNS), the effective TTL is the value returned from the name service and
       not the value of the positive-time-to-live attribute.

       Please consider the following advice carefully:

       •  If your application will make a second request for the same name, after more than  1  TTL  but  before  re‐
          load-count  TTLs,  and  is  sensitive to the latency of a cache miss, then reloading may be a good idea for
          you.

       •  If your name service is configured to return very short TTLs, and  your  applications  only  make  requests
          rarely  under  normal circumstances, then reloading may result in additional load on your backing name ser‐
          vice without any benefit to applications, which is probably a bad idea for you.

       •  If your name service capacity is limited, reloading may have the surprising effect of  increasing  load  on
          your name service instead of reducing it, and may be a bad idea for you.

       •  Setting  reload-count to unlimited is almost never a good idea, as it will result in a cache that never ex‐
          pires entries and puts never-ending additional load on the backing name service.

       Some distributions have an init script for nscd(8) with a reload command which  uses  nscd  -i  to  purge  the
       cache.  That use of the word "reload" is entirely different from the "reloading" described here.

SEE ALSO
       nscd(8)

Linux man-pages 6.06                                  2023-10-31                                         nscd.conf(5)
