REALM(8)                                            User Commands                                            REALM(8)

NAME
       realm - Manage enrollment in realms

SYNOPSIS

       realm discover [realm-name]

       realm join [-U user] [realm-name]

       realm leave [-U user] [realm-name]

       realm renew [realm-name]

       realm list

       realm permit [-ax] [-R realm] {user@domain...}

       realm deny -a [-R realm]

DESCRIPTION
       realm is a command line tool that can be used to manage enrollment in kerberos realms, like Active Directory
       domains or IPA domains.

       See the various sub commands below. The following global options can be used:

       -i, --install=/path
           Run in install mode. This makes realmd chroot into the directory specified by an absolute path and place
           files in appropriate locations for use during an installer. No packages will be installed or services will
           be started when running in this mode.

       --unattended
           Run in unattended mode without prompting for input.

       -v, --verbose
           Display verbose diagnostics while doing running commands.

DISCOVER
       Discover a realm and its capabilities.

           $ realm discover

           $ realm discover domain.example.com

       After discovering a realm, its name, type and capabilities are displayed.

       If no domain is specified, then the domain assigned through DHCP is used as a default.

       The following options can be used:

       -a, --all
           Show all discovered realms (in various configurations).

       --client-software=xxx
           Only discover realms for which we can use the given client software. Possible values include sssd or
           winbind.

       -n, --name
           Only show the names of the discovered realms.

       --server-software=xxx
           Only discover realms which run the given server software. Possible values include active-directory or ipa.

       --membership-software=xxx
           Only discover realms for which the given membership software can be used to subsequently perform
           enrollment. Possible values include samba or adcli.

       --use-ldaps
           See option description in the section called “JOIN”.

JOIN
       Configure the local machine for use with a realm.

           $ realm join domain.example.com

           $ realm join --user=admin --computer-ou=OU=Special domain.example.com

       The realm is first discovered, as we would with the discover command. If no domain is specified, then the
       domain assigned through DHCP is used as a default.

       After a successful join, the computer will be in a state where it is able to resolve remote user and group
       names from the realm. For kerberos realms, a computer account and host keytab is created.

       Joining arbitrary kerberos realms is not supported. The realm must have a supported mechanism for joining from
       a client machine, such as Active Directory or IPA.

       If the domain has been preconfigured, and unless --user is explicitly specified, an automatic join is
       attempted first.

       Note that the --user, --no-password, and --one-time-password options are mutually exclusive. At most one of
       them can be specified.

       It is generally possible to use kerberos credentials to perform a join operation. Use the kinit command to
       acquire credentials prior to starting the join. Do not specify the --user argument, the user will be selected
       automatically from the credential cache. The realm respects the KRB5_CCACHE environment variable, but uses the
       default kerberos credential cache if it's not present. Not all types of servers can be joined using kerberos
       credentials, some (like IPA) insist on prompting for a password.

       The following options can be used:

       --automatic-id-mapping=no
           Do not perform UID/GID mapping for users and groups, but expect these identifiers to be present in the
           domain already.

       --client-software=xxx
           Only join realms for which we can use the given client software. Possible values include sssd or winbind.
           Not all values are supported for all realms. By default the client software is automatically selected.

       --computer-ou=OU=xxx
           The distinguished name of an organizational unit to create the computer account. The exact format of the
           distinguished name depends on the client software and membership software. You can usually omit the root
           DSE portion of distinguished name. This is an Active Directory specific option.

       --membership-software=xxx
           The software to use when joining to the realm. Possible values include samba or adcli. Not all values are
           supported for all realms. By default the membership software is automatically selected.

       --computer-name=xxx
           This option only applies to Active Directory realms. Specify this option to override the default name used
           when creating the computer account. The system's FQDN will still be saved in the dNSHostName attribute.

           Specify the name as a string of 15 or fewer characters that is a valid NetBIOS computer name.

       --no-password
           Perform the join automatically without a password.

       --one-time-password=xxxx
           Perform the join using a one time password specified on the command line. This is not possible with all
           types of realms.

       --os-name=xxx
           The name of the operation system of the client. When joining an AD domain the value is store in the
           matching AD attribute.

       --os-version=xxx
           The version of the operation system of the client. When joining an AD domain the value is store in the
           matching AD attribute.

       --server-software=xxx
           Only join realms for run the given server software. Possible values include active-directory or ipa.

       -U, --user=xxx
           The user name to be used to authenticate with when joining the machine to the realm. You will be prompted
           for a password.

       --user-principal=host/name@REALM
           Set the userPrincipalName field of the computer account to this kerberos principal. If you omit the value
           for this option, then a principal will be set based on the defaults of the membership software.

           AD makes a distinction between user and service principals. Only with user principals you can request a
           Kerberos Ticket-Granting-Ticket (TGT), i.e. only user principals can be used with the kinit command. By
           default the user principal and the canonical principal name of an AD computer account is
           shortname$@AD.DOMAIN, where shortname is the NetBIOS name which is limited to 15 characters.

           If there are applications which are not aware of the AD default and are using a hard-coded default
           principal the --user-principal can be used to make AD aware of this principal. Please note that
           userPrincipalName is a single value LDAP attribute, i.e. only one alternative user principal besides the
           AD default user principal can be set.

       --use-ldaps
           Use the ldaps port when connecting to AD where possible. In general this option is not needed because
           realmd itself only read public information from the Active Directory domain controller which is available
           anonymously. The supported membership software products will use encrypted connections protected with
           GSS-SPNEGO/GSSAPI which offers a comparable level of security than ldaps. This option is only needed if
           the standard LDAP port (389/tcp) is blocked by a firewall and only the LDAPS port (636/tcp) is available.
           Given that and to lower the initial effort to discover a remote domain realmd does not require a strict
           certificate check. If the validation of the LDAP server certificate fails realmd will continue to setup
           the encrypted connection to the LDAP server.

           If this option is set to yes realmd will use the ldaps port when reading the rootDSE and call the adcli
           membership software with the option --use-ldaps. The Samba base membership currently offers only
           deprecated ways to enable ldaps. Support will be added in realmd when a new way is available.

       --do-not-touch-config
           Run the join operation but do not touch the local configuration of the client except adding new Kerberos
           keys to the keytab. The purpose of this option is to synchronize the keytab entries with the ones stored
           in AD or recreate the computer object in AD without changing the local configuration which might contain
           changes which would get overwritten by a fully leave/join cycle.

           If running realm join with this options does not help to fix issues it is recommended to call realm leave
           followed by realm join to enforce a fresh configuration with default settings. Since this might overwrite
           manual changes to the related configuration files it is recommend to save those change before running the
           commands.

           This options is only available when joining AD domains.

LEAVE
       Deconfigure the local machine for use with a realm.

           $ realm leave

           $ realm leave domain.example.com

       If no realm name is specified, then the first configured realm will be used.

       The following options can be used:

       --client-software=xxx
           Only leave the realm which is using the given client software. Possible values include sssd or winbind.

       --server-software=xxx
           Only leave the realm which is using the given server software. Possible values include active-directory or
           ipa.

       --remove
           Remove or disable computer account from the directory while leaving the realm. This will usually prompt
           for a pasword.

       -U, --user
           The user name to be used to authenticate with when leaving the realm. You will be prompted for a password.
           Implies --remove.

       --use-ldaps
           See option description in the section called “JOIN”.

RENEW
       Renew the machine account password and update the keytab.

           $ realm renew

           $ realm renew --computer-password-lifetime=10 domain.example.com

       Renew the machine account password with the help of the existing one from a keytab and store the new version
       in the keytab. If no domain name is given it is derived from the existing configuration.

       The following options can be used:

       --membership-software=xxx
           Use specified membership software, currently only adcli is supported.

       --use-ldaps
           See option description in the section called “JOIN”.

       --host-keytab=xxx
           Path to the keytab, if not specified the default keytab file will be used.

       --host-fqdn=xxx
           Fully-qualified name of the host, only needed if it is not determined correctly automatically.

       --computer-password-lifetime=xxx
           Lifetime of the machine account password in days, default is 30.

       --add-samba-data
           Try to update Samba's internal machine account password as well if a membership software other than Samba
           is used.

LIST
       List all the discovered and configured realms.

           $ realm list

       By default, realms that have been discovered, but not configured (using the join command), are not displayed.
       Also, by default, the list of realm details displayed is verbose. The options below can be used to change this
       default behavior

       The following options can be used:

       --all
           Show all discovered realms (whether or not they have been configured).

       --name-only
           Display only realm names (as opposed to verbose output).

PERMIT
       Permit local login by users of the realm.

           $ realm permit --all
           $ realm permit user@example.com
           $ realm permit DOMAIN\\User2
           $ realm permit --withdraw user@example.com

       The current login policy and format of the user names can be seen by using the realm list command.

       The following options can be used:

       --all, -a
           Permit logins using realm accounts on the local machine according to the realm policy.This usually
           defaults to allowing any realm user to log in.

       --groups, -g
           Treat the specified names as groups rather than user login names. Permit login by users in the specified
           groups.

       --realm, -R
           Specify the of the realm to change login policy for.

       --withdraw, -x
           Remove a login from the list of realm accounts permitted to log into the machine.

DENY
       Deny local login by realm accounts.

           $ realm deny --all

       This command prevents realm accounts from logging into the local machine. Use realm permit to restrict logins
       to specific accounts.

       The following options can be used:

       --all, -a
           This option should be specified

       --realm, -R
           Specify the name of the realm to deny users login to.

SEE ALSO
       realmd.conf(5)

AUTHOR
       Stef Walter <stef@thewalter.net>
           Maintainer

realmd                                                10/14/2025                                             REALM(8)
