SSS_CACHE(8)                                      SSSD Manual pages                                      SSS_CACHE(8)

NAME
       sss_cache - perform cache cleanup

SYNOPSIS

       sss_cache [options]

DESCRIPTION
       sss_cache invalidates records in SSSD cache. Invalidated records are forced to be reloaded from server as soon
       as related SSSD backend is online. Options that invalidate a single object only accept a single provided
       argument.

OPTIONS
       -E,--everything
           Invalidate all cached entries.

       -u,--user login
           Invalidate specific user.

       -U,--users
           Invalidate all user records. This option overrides invalidation of specific user if it was also set.

       -g,--group group
           Invalidate specific group.

       -G,--groups
           Invalidate all group records. This option overrides invalidation of specific group if it was also set.

       -n,--netgroup netgroup
           Invalidate specific netgroup.

       -N,--netgroups
           Invalidate all netgroup records. This option overrides invalidation of specific netgroup if it was also
           set.

       -s,--service service
           Invalidate specific service.

       -S,--services
           Invalidate all service records. This option overrides invalidation of specific service if it was also set.

       -a,--autofs-map autofs-map
           Invalidate specific autofs maps.

       -A,--autofs-maps
           Invalidate all autofs maps. This option overrides invalidation of specific map if it was also set.

       -h,--ssh-host hostname
           Invalidate SSH public keys of a specific host.

       -H,--ssh-hosts
           Invalidate SSH public keys of all hosts. This option overrides invalidation of SSH public keys of specific
           host if it was also set.

       -r,--sudo-rule rule
           Invalidate particular sudo rule.

       -R,--sudo-rules
           Invalidate all cached sudo rules. This option overrides invalidation of specific sudo rule if it was also
           set.

       -d,--domain domain
           Restrict invalidation process only to a particular domain.

       -?,--help
           Display help message and exit.

EFFECTS ON THE FAST MEMORY CACHE
       sss_cache also invalidates the memory cache. Since the memory cache is a file which is mapped into the memory
       of each process which called SSSD to resolve users or groups the file cannot be truncated. A special flag is
       set in the header of the file to indicate that the content is invalid and then the file is unlinked by SSSD's
       NSS responder and a new cache file is created. Whenever a process is now doing a new lookup for a user or a
       group it will see the flag, close the old memory cache file and map the new one into its memory. When all
       processes which had opened the old memory cache file have closed it while looking up a user or a group the
       kernel can release the occupied disk space and the old memory cache file is finally removed completely.

       A special case is long running processes which are doing user or group lookups only at startup, e.g. to
       determine the name of the user the process is running as. For those lookups the memory cache file is mapped
       into the memory of the process. But since there will be no further lookups this process would never detect if
       the memory cache file was invalidated and hence it will be kept in memory and will occupy disk space until the
       process stops. As a result calling sss_cache might increase the disk usage because old memory cache files
       cannot be removed from the disk because they are still mapped by long running processes.

       A possible work-around for long running processes which are looking up users and groups only at startup or
       very rarely is to run them with the environment variable SSS_NSS_USE_MEMCACHE set to "NO" so that they won't
       use the memory cache at all and not map the memory cache file into the memory. In general a better solution is
       to tune the cache timeout parameters so that they meet the local expectations and calling sss_cache is not
       needed.

SEE ALSO
       sssd(8), sssd.conf(5), sssd-ldap(5), sssd-ldap-attributes(5), sssd-krb5(5), sssd-simple(5), sssd-ipa(5), sssd-
       ad(5), sssd-sudo(5), sssd-session-recording(5), sss_cache(8), sss_debuglevel(8), sss_obfuscate(8),
       sss_seed(8), sssd_krb5_locator_plugin(8), sss_ssh_authorizedkeys(1), sss_ssh_knownhosts(1), sssd-ifp(5),
       pam_sss(8).  sss_rpcidmapd(5) sssd-systemtap(5)

AUTHORS
       The SSSD upstream - https://github.com/SSSD/sssd/

SSSD                                                  10/21/2025                                         SSS_CACHE(8)
