_EXIT(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     _EXIT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       _Exit, _exit — terminate a process

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void _Exit(int status);

       #include <unistd.h>

       void _exit(int status);

DESCRIPTION
       For  _Exit():  The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict between the requirements described here  and  the  ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  value  of status may be 0, EXIT_SUCCESS, EXIT_FAILURE, or any other value, though only the least signifi‐
       cant 8 bits (that is, status & 0377) shall be available to a waiting parent process.

       The _Exit() and _exit() functions shall be functionally equivalent.

       The _Exit() and _exit() functions shall not call functions registered with atexit() nor any registered  signal
       handlers.  Open streams shall not be flushed.  Whether open streams are closed (without flushing) is implemen‐
       tation-defined. Finally, the calling process shall be terminated with the consequences described below.

   Consequences of Process Termination
       Process termination caused by any reason shall have the following consequences:

       Note:     These  consequences are all extensions to the ISO C standard and are not further CX shaded. However,
                 functionality relating to the XSI option is shaded.

        *  All of the file descriptors, directory streams, conversion descriptors, and  message  catalog  descriptors
           open in the calling process shall be closed.

        *  If  the  parent process of the calling process is executing a wait(), waitid(), or waitpid(), and has nei‐
           ther set its SA_NOCLDWAIT flag nor set SIGCHLD to SIG_IGN, it shall be  notified  of  termination  of  the
           calling process and the low-order eight bits (that is, bits 0377) of status shall be made available to it.
           If  the  parent  is  not  waiting, the child's status shall be made available to it when the parent subse‐
           quently executes wait(), waitid(), or waitpid().

           The semantics of the waitid() function shall be equivalent to wait().

        *  If the parent process of the calling process is not executing a wait(), waitid(), or  waitpid(),  and  has
           neither  set  its  SA_NOCLDWAIT  flag nor set SIGCHLD to SIG_IGN, the calling process shall be transformed
           into a zombie process.  A zombie process is an inactive process and it shall be deleted at some later time
           when its parent process executes wait(), waitid(), or waitpid().

           The semantics of the waitid() function shall be equivalent to wait().

        *  Termination of a process does not directly terminate its children. The sending of a SIGHUP signal  as  de‐
           scribed below indirectly terminates children in some circumstances.

        *  Either:

           If the implementation supports the SIGCHLD signal, a SIGCHLD shall be sent to the parent process.

           Or:

           If  the  parent process has set its SA_NOCLDWAIT flag, or set SIGCHLD to SIG_IGN, the status shall be dis‐
           carded, and the lifetime of the calling process shall end immediately. If SA_NOCLDWAIT is set, it  is  im‐
           plementation-defined whether a SIGCHLD signal is sent to the parent process.

        *  The  parent  process ID of all of the existing child processes and zombie processes of the calling process
           shall be set to the process ID of an implementation-defined system process. That is, these processes shall
           be inherited by a special system process.

        *  Each attached shared-memory segment is detached and the value of shm_nattch (see  shmget())  in  the  data
           structure associated with its shared memory ID shall be decremented by 1.

        *  For each semaphore for which the calling process has set a semadj value (see semop()), that value shall be
           added to the semval of the specified semaphore.

        *  If the process is a controlling process, the SIGHUP signal shall be sent to each process in the foreground
           process group of the controlling terminal belonging to the calling process.

        *  If  the  process  is  a controlling process, the controlling terminal associated with the session shall be
           disassociated from the session, allowing it to be acquired by a new controlling process.

        *  If the exit of the process causes a process group to become orphaned, and if any member of  the  newly-or‐
           phaned  process  group is stopped, then a SIGHUP signal followed by a SIGCONT signal shall be sent to each
           process in the newly-orphaned process group.

        *  All open named semaphores in  the  calling  process  shall  be  closed  as  if  by  appropriate  calls  to
           sem_close().

        *  Any memory locks established by the process via calls to mlockall() or mlock() shall be removed. If locked
           pages  in  the  address  space  of  the  calling  process are also mapped into the address spaces of other
           processes and are locked by those processes, the locks established by the other processes shall  be  unaf‐
           fected by the call by this process to _Exit() or _exit().

        *  Memory mappings that were created in the process shall be unmapped before the process is destroyed.

        *  Any  blocks  of typed memory that were mapped in the calling process shall be unmapped, as if munmap() was
           implicitly called to unmap them.

        *  All open message queue descriptors in the calling process shall be closed as if by  appropriate  calls  to
           mq_close().

        *  Any  outstanding cancelable asynchronous I/O operations may be canceled. Those asynchronous I/O operations
           that are not canceled shall complete as if the _Exit() or _exit() operation had not yet occurred, but  any
           associated  signal  notifications shall be suppressed. The _Exit() or _exit() operation may block awaiting
           such I/O completion. Whether any I/O is canceled, and which I/O may be canceled upon _Exit()  or  _exit(),
           is implementation-defined.

        *  Threads terminated by a call to _Exit() or _exit() shall not invoke their cancellation cleanup handlers or
           per-thread data destructors.

        *  If  the  calling process is a trace controller process, any trace streams that were created by the calling
           process shall be shut down as described by the posix_trace_shutdown() function, and mapping of trace event
           names to trace event type identifiers of any process built for these trace streams may be deallocated.

RETURN VALUE
       These functions do not return.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Normally applications should use exit() rather than _Exit() or _exit().

RATIONALE
   Process Termination
       Early proposals drew a distinction between normal and abnormal process termination. Abnormal  termination  was
       caused only by certain signals and resulted in implementation-defined ``actions'', as discussed below.  Subse‐
       quent  proposals  distinguished  three  types of termination: normal termination (as in the current specifica‐
       tion), simple abnormal termination, and abnormal termination with actions.  Again the distinction between  the
       two  types  of abnormal termination was that they were caused by different signals and that implementation-de‐
       fined actions would result in the latter case. Given that these  actions  were  completely  implementation-de‐
       fined, the early proposals were only saying when the actions could occur and how their occurrence could be de‐
       tected, but not what they were. This was of little or no use to conforming applications, and thus the distinc‐
       tion is not made in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

       The implementation-defined actions usually include, in most historical implementations, the creation of a file
       named  core  in the current working directory of the process. This file contains an image of the memory of the
       process, together with descriptive information about the process, perhaps sufficient to reconstruct the  state
       of the process at the receipt of the signal.

       There  is  a potential security problem in creating a core file if the process was set-user-ID and the current
       user is not the owner of the program, if the process was set-group-ID and none of the user's groups match  the
       group of the program, or if the user does not have permission to write in the current directory. In this situ‐
       ation, an implementation either should not create a core file or should make it unreadable by the user.

       Despite  the  silence  of  this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 on this feature, applications are advised not to create
       files named core because of potential conflicts in many implementations. Some implementations use a name other
       than core for the file; for example, by appending the process ID to the filename.

   Terminating a Process
       It is important that the consequences of process termination as described  occur  regardless  of  whether  the
       process  called  _exit()  (perhaps indirectly through exit()) or instead was terminated due to a signal or for
       some other reason.  Note that in the specific case of exit() this means that the status argument to exit()  is
       treated in the same way as the status argument to _exit().

       A  language  other  than C may have other termination primitives than the C-language exit() function, and pro‐
       grams written in such a language should use its native termination primitives, but those should have  as  part
       of  their function the behavior of _exit() as described. Implementations in languages other than C are outside
       the scope of this version of this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, however.

       As required by the ISO C standard, using return from main() has the same behavior (other than with respect  to
       language  scope issues) as calling exit() with the returned value. Reaching the end of the main() function has
       the same behavior as calling exit(0).

       A value of zero (or EXIT_SUCCESS, which is required to be zero) for the argument status  conventionally  indi‐
       cates successful termination. This corresponds to the specification for exit() in the ISO C standard. The con‐
       vention  is  followed by utilities such as make and various shells, which interpret a zero status from a child
       process as success. For this reason, applications should not call exit(0) or _exit(0) when they terminate  un‐
       successfully; for example, in signal-catching functions.

       Historically,  the implementation-defined process that inherits children whose parents have terminated without
       waiting on them is called init and has a process ID of 1.

       The sending of a SIGHUP to the foreground process group when a controlling process terminates  corresponds  to
       somewhat  different  historical implementations. In System V, the kernel sends a SIGHUP on termination of (es‐
       sentially) a controlling process. In 4.2 BSD, the kernel does not send SIGHUP in a case  like  this,  but  the
       termination of a controlling process is usually noticed by a system daemon, which arranges to send a SIGHUP to
       the  foreground  process  group  with  the vhangup() function. However, in 4.2 BSD, due to the behavior of the
       shells that support job control, the controlling process is usually a shell with no  other  processes  in  its
       process  group.  Thus, a change to make _exit() behave this way in such systems should not cause problems with
       existing applications.

       The termination of a process may cause a process group to become orphaned in either of two ways.  The  connec‐
       tion  of a process group to its parent(s) outside of the group depends on both the parents and their children.
       Thus, a process group may be orphaned by the termination of the last connecting parent process outside of  the
       group  or  by  the termination of the last direct descendant of the parent process(es). In either case, if the
       termination of a process causes a process group to become orphaned, processes within  the  group  are  discon‐
       nected  from  their  job  control  shell,  which no longer has any information on the existence of the process
       group. Stopped processes within the group would languish forever. In order to avoid this  problem,  newly  or‐
       phaned process groups that contain stopped processes are sent a SIGHUP signal and a SIGCONT signal to indicate
       that  they  have  been disconnected from their session.  The SIGHUP signal causes the process group members to
       terminate unless they are catching or ignoring SIGHUP. Under most circumstances, all of  the  members  of  the
       process group are stopped if any of them are stopped.

       The action of sending a SIGHUP and a SIGCONT signal to members of a newly orphaned process group is similar to
       the  action  of  4.2 BSD, which sends SIGHUP and SIGCONT to each stopped child of an exiting process.  If such
       children exit in response to the SIGHUP, any additional descendants receive similar treatment at that time. In
       this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, the signals are sent to the entire process group at the same time. Also, in  this
       volume of POSIX.1‐2008, but not in 4.2 BSD, stopped processes may be orphaned, but may be members of a process
       group  that  is  not orphaned; therefore, the action taken at _exit() must consider processes other than child
       processes.

       It is possible for a process group to be orphaned by a call to setpgid() or setsid(), as well  as  by  process
       termination.  This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not require sending SIGHUP and SIGCONT in those cases, because,
       unlike process termination, those cases are not caused accidentally by applications that are  unaware  of  job
       control.  An  implementation can choose to send SIGHUP and SIGCONT in those cases as an extension; such an ex‐
       tension must be documented as required in <signal.h>.

       The ISO/IEC 9899:1999 standard adds the _Exit() function that results in immediate program termination without
       triggering signals or atexit()-registered functions. In POSIX.1‐2008, this is equivalent to the _exit()  func‐
       tion.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       atexit(),  exit(),  mlock(),  mlockall(),  mq_close(),  munmap(),  posix_trace_create(), sem_close(), semop(),
       setpgid(), setsid(), shmget(), wait(), waitid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               _EXIT(3P)
