ABORT(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     ABORT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       abort — generate an abnormal process abort

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void abort(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The abort() function shall cause abnormal process termination to occur, unless the  signal  SIGABRT  is  being
       caught and the signal handler does not return.

       The  abnormal  termination processing shall include the default actions defined for SIGABRT and may include an
       attempt to effect fclose() on all open streams.

       The SIGABRT signal shall be sent to the calling process as if by means of raise() with the argument SIGABRT.

       The status made available to wait(), waitid(), or waitpid() by abort() shall be that of a  process  terminated
       by the SIGABRT signal.  The abort() function shall override blocking or ignoring the SIGABRT signal.

RETURN VALUE
       The abort() function shall not return.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Catching  the  signal is intended to provide the application developer with a portable means to abort process‐
       ing, free from possible interference from any implementation-supplied functions.

RATIONALE
       The ISO/IEC 9899:1999 standard requires the abort() function to be async-signal-safe. Since  POSIX.1‐2008  de‐
       fers  to  the  ISO C  standard,  this  required a change to the DESCRIPTION from ``shall include the effect of
       fclose()'' to ``may include an attempt to effect fclose().''

       The revised wording permits some backwards-compatibility and avoids a potential deadlock situation.

       The Open Group Base Resolution bwg2002‐003 is applied, removing the following XSI shaded  paragraph  from  the
       DESCRIPTION:

       ``On  XSI-conformant  systems,  in  addition  the  abnormal termination processing shall include the effect of
       fclose() on message catalog descriptors.''

       There were several reasons to remove this paragraph:

        *  No special processing of open message catalogs needs to be performed prior to  abnormal  process  termina‐
           tion.

        *  The main reason to specifically mention that abort() includes the effect of fclose() on open streams is to
           flush  output  queued on the stream. Message catalogs in this context are read-only and, therefore, do not
           need to be flushed.

        *  The effect of fclose() on a message catalog descriptor is unspecified. Message catalog descriptors are al‐
           lowed, but not required to be implemented using a file descriptor, but there is no mention in POSIX.1‐2008
           of a message catalog descriptor using a standard I/O stream FILE object as would be expected by fclose().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exit(), kill(), raise(), signal(), wait(), waitid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               ABORT(3P)
