ACCESS(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    ACCESS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       access, faccessat — determine accessibility of a file relative to directory file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int access(const char *path, int amode);
       int faccessat(int fd, const char *path, int amode, int flag);

DESCRIPTION
       The  access() function shall check the file named by the pathname pointed to by the path argument for accessi‐
       bility according to the bit pattern contained in amode, using the real user ID in place of the effective  user
       ID and the real group ID in place of the effective group ID.

       The  value  of  amode  is either the bitwise-inclusive OR of the access permissions to be checked (R_OK, W_OK,
       X_OK) or the existence test (F_OK).

       If any access permissions are checked, each shall be checked individually, as described in  the  Base  Defini‐
       tions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.4, File Access Permissions, except that where that description refers
       to execute permission for a process with appropriate privileges, an implementation may  indicate  success  for
       X_OK even if execute permission is not granted to any user.

       The faccessat() function shall be equivalent to the access() function, except in the case where path specifies
       a  relative  path.  In this case the file whose accessibility is to be determined shall be located relative to
       the directory associated with the file descriptor fd instead of the current working directory. If the file de‐
       scriptor was opened without O_SEARCH, the function shall check whether directory searches are permitted  using
       the  current  permissions  of  the directory underlying the file descriptor. If the file descriptor was opened
       with O_SEARCH, the function shall not perform the check.

       If faccessat() is passed the special value AT_FDCWD in the fd parameter, the current working  directory  shall
       be used and the behavior shall be identical to a call to access().

       Values  for  flag  are constructed by a bitwise-inclusive OR of flags from the following list, defined in <fc‐
       ntl.h>:

       AT_EACCESS  The checks for accessibility are performed using the effective user and group IDs instead  of  the
                   real user and group ID as required in a call to access().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, these functions shall return 0. Otherwise, these functions shall return −1 and set
       errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EACCES Permission  bits of the file mode do not permit the requested access, or search permission is denied on
              a component of the path prefix.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A component of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a  symbolic  link
              to  a  directory, or the path argument contains at least one non-<slash> character and ends with one or
              more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname component names an existing file that is neither
              a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       EROFS  Write access is requested for a file on a read-only file system.

       The faccessat() function shall fail if:

       EACCES fd was not opened with O_SEARCH and the permissions of the directory underlying fd do not permit direc‐
              tory searches.

       EBADF  The path argument does not specify an absolute path and the fd argument is neither AT_FDCWD nor a valid
              file descriptor open for reading or searching.

       ENOTDIR
              The path argument is not an absolute path and fd is a file descriptor associated with  a  non-directory
              file.

       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the amode argument is invalid.

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The  length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       ETXTBSY
              Write access is requested for a pure procedure (shared text) file that is being executed.

       The faccessat() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the flag argument is not valid.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Testing for the Existence of a File
       The following example tests whether a file named myfile exists in the /tmp directory.

           #include <unistd.h>
           ...
           int result;
           const char *pathname = "/tmp/myfile";

           result = access (pathname, F_OK);

APPLICATION USAGE
       Additional values of amode other than the set defined in the description may be valid; for example, if a  sys‐
       tem has extended access controls.

       The use of the AT_EACCESS value for flag enables functionality not available in access().

RATIONALE
       In  early  proposals,  some inadequacies in the access() function led to the creation of an eaccess() function
       because:

        1. Historical implementations of access() do not test file access correctly when the process' real user ID is
           superuser. In particular, they always return zero when  testing  execute  permissions  without  regard  to
           whether the file is executable.

        2. The  superuser has complete access to all files on a system. As a consequence, programs started by the su‐
           peruser and switched to the effective user ID with lesser privileges cannot use  access()  to  test  their
           file access permissions.

       However,  the  historical  model of eaccess() does not resolve problem (1), so this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 now
       allows access() to behave in the desired way because several implementations have corrected  the  problem.  It
       was  also argued that problem (2) is more easily solved by using open(), chdir(), or one of the exec functions
       as appropriate and responding to the error, rather than creating a new function that would not be as reliable.
       Therefore, eaccess() is not included in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

       The sentence concerning appropriate privileges and execute permission bits reflects the two possibilities  im‐
       plemented by historical implementations when checking superuser access for X_OK.

       New implementations are discouraged from returning X_OK unless at least one execution permission bit is set.

       The purpose of the faccessat() function is to enable the checking of the accessibility of files in directories
       other  than  the current working directory without exposure to race conditions. Any part of the path of a file
       could be changed in parallel to a call to access(), resulting in unspecified behavior. By opening a  file  de‐
       scriptor for the target directory and using the faccessat() function it can be guaranteed that the file tested
       for accessibility is located relative to the desired directory.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chmod(), fstatat()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.4, File Access Permissions, <fcntl.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              ACCESS(3P)
