ALIAS(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     ALIAS(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       alias — define or display aliases

SYNOPSIS
       alias [alias-name[=string]...]

DESCRIPTION
       The alias utility shall create or redefine alias definitions or write the values of existing alias definitions
       to  standard  output. An alias definition provides a string value that shall replace a command name when it is
       encountered; see Section 2.3.1, Alias Substitution.

       An alias definition shall affect the current shell execution environment and the execution environments of the
       subshells of the current shell. When used as specified by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008,  the  alias  definition
       shall not affect the parent process of the current shell nor any utility environment invoked by the shell; see
       Section 2.12, Shell Execution Environment.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       alias-name
                 Write the alias definition to standard output.

       alias-name=string
                 Assign the value of string to the alias alias-name.

       If no operands are given, all alias definitions shall be written to standard output.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of alias:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The format for displaying aliases (when no operands or only name operands are specified) shall be:

           "%s=%s\n", name, value

       The  value  string  shall be written with appropriate quoting so that it is suitable for reinput to the shell.
       See the description of shell quoting in Section 2.2, Quoting.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    One of the name operands specified did not have an alias definition, or an error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
        1. Create a short alias for a commonly used ls command:

               alias lf="ls −CF"

        2. Create a simple ``redo'' command to repeat previous entries in the command history file:

               alias r='fc −s'

        3. Use 1K units for du:

               alias du=du\ −k

        4. Set up nohup so that it can deal with an argument that is itself an alias name:

               alias nohup="nohup "

RATIONALE
       The alias description is based on historical KornShell implementations. Known differences exist  between  that
       and  the  C shell. The KornShell version was adopted to be consistent with all the other KornShell features in
       this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, such as command line editing.

       Since alias affects the current shell execution environment, it is  generally  provided  as  a  shell  regular
       built-in.

       Historical  versions  of  the KornShell have allowed aliases to be exported to scripts that are invoked by the
       same shell. This is triggered by the alias −x flag; it is allowed by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 only when  an
       explicit  extension  such as −x is used. The standard developers considered that aliases were of use primarily
       to interactive users and that they should normally not affect shell scripts called by those  users;  functions
       are available to such scripts.

       Historical  versions  of  the KornShell had not written aliases in a quoted manner suitable for reentry to the
       shell, but this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 has made this a requirement for all similar output. Therefore,  consis‐
       tency was chosen over this detail of historical practice.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.9.5, Function Definition Command

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               ALIAS(1P)
