ASA(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       ASA(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       asa — interpret carriage-control characters

SYNOPSIS
       asa [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  asa  utility shall write its input files to standard output, mapping carriage-control characters from the
       text files to line-printer control sequences in an implementation-defined manner.

       The first character of every line shall be removed from the input, and the following actions are performed.

       If the character removed is:

       <space>   The rest of the line is output without change.

       0         A <newline> is output, then the rest of the input line.

       1         One or more implementation-defined characters that causes an advance to the next page shall be  out‐
                 put, followed by the rest of the input line.

       +         The <newline> of the previous line shall be replaced with one or more implementation-defined charac‐
                 ters that causes printing to return to column position 1, followed by the rest of the input line. If
                 the '+' is the first character in the input, it shall be equivalent to <space>.

       The  action of the asa utility is unspecified upon encountering any character other than those listed above as
       the first character in a line.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       file      A pathname of a text file used for input. If no file operands  are  specified,  the  standard  input
                 shall be used.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used if no file operands are specified, and shall be used if a file operand is '−'
       and  the  implementation treats the '−' as meaning standard input.  Otherwise, the standard input shall not be
       used.  See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files shall be text files.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of asa:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall be the text from the input file modified as described in the DESCRIPTION section.

STDERR
       None.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    All input files were output successfully.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
        1. The following command:

               asa file

           permits the viewing of file (created by a program using FORTRAN-style carriage-control  characters)  on  a
           terminal.

        2. The following command:

               a.out | asa | lp

           formats the FORTRAN output of a.out and directs it to the printer.

RATIONALE
       The  asa utility is needed to map ``standard'' FORTRAN 77 output into a form acceptable to contemporary print‐
       ers. Usually, asa is used to pipe data to the lp utility; see lp.

       This utility is generally used only by FORTRAN programs. The standard developers  decided  to  retain  asa  to
       avoid breaking the historical large base of FORTRAN applications that put carriage-control characters in their
       output  files. There is no requirement that a system have a FORTRAN compiler in order to run applications that
       need asa.

       Historical implementations have used an ASCII <form-feed> in response to a 1 and an ASCII <carriage-return> in
       response to a '+'.  It is suggested that implementations treat characters other than 0, 1, and '+' as  <space>
       in  the  absence  of  any  compelling reason to do otherwise. However, the action is listed here as ``unspeci‐
       fied'', permitting an implementation to provide extensions to access fast multiple-line  slewing  and  channel
       seeking in a non-portable manner.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fort77, lp

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 ASA(1P)
