ATEXIT(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    ATEXIT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       atexit — register a function to run at process termination

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int atexit(void (*func)(void));

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The atexit() function shall register the function pointed to by func, to be called without arguments at normal
       program termination. At normal program termination, all functions registered by the atexit() function shall be
       called, in the reverse order of their registration, except that a function is called after any previously reg‐
       istered functions that had already been called at the time it was registered.  Normal termination  occurs  ei‐
       ther by a call to exit() or a return from main().

       At least 32 functions can be registered with atexit().

       After a successful call to any of the exec functions, any functions previously registered by atexit() shall no
       longer be registered.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, atexit() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return a non-zero value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The functions registered by a call to atexit() must return to ensure that all registered functions are called.

       The application should call sysconf() to obtain the value of {ATEXIT_MAX}, the number of functions that can be
       registered.  There  is  no way for an application to tell how many functions have already been registered with
       atexit().

       Since the behavior is undefined if the exit() function is called more than once, portable applications calling
       atexit() must ensure that the exit() function is not called at normal process termination when  all  functions
       registered by the atexit() function are called.

       All  functions registered by the atexit() function are called at normal process termination, which occurs by a
       call to the exit() function or a return from main() or on the last thread termination, when the behavior is as
       if the implementation called exit() with a zero argument at thread termination time.

       If, at normal process termination, a function registered by the atexit() function is called and a portable ap‐
       plication needs to stop further exit() processing, it must call the _exit() function or the  _Exit()  function
       or one of the functions which cause abnormal process termination.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, exit(), sysconf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              ATEXIT(3P)
