BATCH(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     BATCH(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       batch — schedule commands to be executed in a batch queue

SYNOPSIS
       batch

DESCRIPTION
       The batch utility shall read commands from standard input and schedule them for execution in a batch queue. It
       shall be the equivalent of the command:

           at −q b −m now

       where  queue  b is a special at queue, specifically for batch jobs. Batch jobs shall be submitted to the batch
       queue with no time constraints and shall be run by the system using algorithms, based on unspecified  factors,
       that may vary with each invocation of batch.

       Users shall be permitted to use batch if their name appears in the file at.allow which is located in an imple‐
       mentation-defined  directory.  If that file does not exist, the file at.deny, which is located in an implemen‐
       tation-defined directory, shall be checked to determine whether the user shall be denied access to batch.   If
       neither  file  exists,  only  a  process with appropriate privileges shall be allowed to submit a job. If only
       at.deny exists and is empty, global usage shall be permitted. The at.allow and at.deny files shall consist  of
       one user name per line.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       The  standard  input  shall be a text file consisting of commands acceptable to the shell command language de‐
       scribed in Chapter 2, Shell Command Language.

INPUT FILES
       The text files at.allow and at.deny, which are located in an implementation-defined directory,  shall  contain
       zero  or  more user names, one per line, of users who are, respectively, authorized or denied access to the at
       and batch utilities.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of batch:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       LC_TIME   Determine the format and contents for date and time strings written by batch.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       SHELL     Determine the name of a command interpreter to be used to invoke the at-job. If the variable is  un‐
                 set  or null, sh shall be used. If it is set to a value other than a name for sh, the implementation
                 shall do one of the following: use that shell; use sh; use the login shell from the  user  database;
                 any of the preceding accompanied by a warning diagnostic about which was chosen.

       TZ        Determine  the  timezone. The job shall be submitted for execution at the time specified by timespec
                 or −t time relative to the timezone specified by the TZ variable. If timespec specifies a  timezone,
                 it  overrides  TZ.   If timespec does not specify a timezone and TZ is unset or null, an unspecified
                 default timezone shall be used.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       When standard input is a terminal, prompts of unspecified format for each line of the user input described  in
       the STDIN section may be written to standard output.

STDERR
       The following shall be written to standard error when a job has been successfully submitted:

           "job %s at %s\n", at_job_id, <date>

       where date shall be equivalent in format to the output of:

           date +"%a %b %e %T %Y"

       The  date and time written shall be adjusted so that they appear in the timezone of the user (as determined by
       the TZ variable).

       Neither this, nor warning messages concerning the selection of the command interpreter, are considered a diag‐
       nostic that changes the exit status.

       Diagnostic messages, if any, shall be written to standard error.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       The job shall not be scheduled.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       It may be useful to redirect standard output within the specified commands.

EXAMPLES
        1. This sequence can be used at a terminal:

               batch
               sort < file >outfile
               EOT

        2. This sequence, which demonstrates redirecting standard error to a pipe, is useful in a  command  procedure
           (the sequence of output redirection specifications is significant):

               batch <<!
               diff file1 file2 2>&1 >outfile | mailx mygroup
               !

RATIONALE
       Early  proposals  described  batch  in  a  manner  totally separated from at, even though the historical model
       treated it almost as a synonym for at −qb.  A number of features were added to list  and  control  batch  work
       separately  from  those in at.  Upon further reflection, it was decided that the benefit of this did not merit
       the change to the historical interface.

       The −m option was included on the equivalent at command because it is historical practice to mail  results  to
       the  submitter,  even  if all job-produced output is redirected. As explained in the RATIONALE for at, the now
       keyword submits the job for immediate execution (after scheduling delays),  despite  some  historical  systems
       where at now would have been considered an error.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       at

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               BATCH(1P)
