BG(1P)                                        POSIX Programmer's Manual                                        BG(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       bg — run jobs in the background

SYNOPSIS
       bg [job_id...]

DESCRIPTION
       If job control is enabled (see the description of set −m), the bg utility shall resume suspended jobs from the
       current environment (see Section 2.12, Shell Execution Environment) by running them as background jobs. If the
       job  specified  by  job_id  is already a running background job, the bg utility shall have no effect and shall
       exit successfully.

       Using bg to place a job into the background shall cause its process ID to become ``known in the current  shell
       execution environment'', as if it had been started as an asynchronous list; see Section 2.9.3.1, Examples.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       job_id    Specify  the job to be resumed as a background job. If no job_id operand is given, the most recently
                 suspended job shall be used. The format of job_id is described in the  Base  Definitions  volume  of
                 POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.204, Job Control Job ID.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of bg:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The output of bg shall consist of a line in the format:

           "[%d] %s\n", <job-number>, <command>

       where the fields are as follows:

       <job-number>
                 A number that can be used to identify the job to the wait, fg, and kill utilities. Using these util‐
                 ities, the job can be identified by prefixing the job number with '%'.

       <command> The associated command that was given to the shell.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       If  job  control  is disabled, the bg utility shall exit with an error and no job shall be placed in the back‐
       ground.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       A job is generally suspended by typing the SUSP character (<control>‐Z on most systems); see the Base  Defini‐
       tions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface.  At that point, bg can put the job into
       the background. This is most effective when the job is expecting no terminal input and  its  output  has  been
       redirected  to non-terminal files. A background job can be forced to stop when it has terminal output by issu‐
       ing the command:

           stty tostop

       A background job can be stopped with the command:

           kill −s stop job ID

       The bg utility does not work as expected when it is operating in its own utility execution environment because
       that environment has no suspended jobs. In the following examples:

           ... | xargs bg
           (bg)

       each bg operates in a different environment and does not share its parent shell's understanding of  jobs.  For
       this reason, bg is generally implemented as a shell regular built-in.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  extensions  to the shell specified in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 have mostly been based on features pro‐
       vided by the KornShell. The job control features provided by bg, fg, and jobs are also based on the KornShell.
       The standard developers examined the characteristics of the C shell versions of these utilities and found that
       differences exist. Despite widespread use of the C shell, the KornShell versions were selected for this volume
       of POSIX.1‐2008 to maintain a degree of uniformity with the rest of the KornShell features selected  (such  as
       the very popular command line editing features).

       The bg utility is expected to wrap its output if the output exceeds the number of display columns.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.9.3.1, Examples, fg, kill, jobs, wait

       The  Base  Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.204, Job Control Job ID, Chapter 8, Environment Vari‐
       ables, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                  BG(1P)
