CAL(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       CAL(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       cal — print a calendar

SYNOPSIS
       cal [[month] year]

DESCRIPTION
       The  cal utility shall write a calendar to standard output using the Julian calendar for dates from January 1,
       1 through September 2, 1752 and the Gregorian calendar for dates from September 14, 1752 through December  31,
       9999 as though the Gregorian calendar had been adopted on September 14, 1752.

       If no operands are given, cal shall produce a one-month calendar for the current month in the current year. If
       only the year operand is given, cal shall produce a calendar for all twelve months in the given calendar year.
       If  both  month and year operands are given, cal shall produce a one-month calendar for the given month in the
       given year.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       month     Specify the month to be displayed, represented as a decimal integer from 1 (January) to  12  (Decem‐
                 ber).

       year      Specify  the  year  for  which the calendar is displayed, represented as a decimal integer from 1 to
                 9999.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of cal:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error, and informative messages written to standard output.

       LC_TIME   Determine the format and contents of the calendar.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       TZ        Determine the timezone used to calculate the value of the current month.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall be used to display the calendar, in an unspecified format.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Note that:

           cal 83

       refers to A.D. 83, not 1983.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       Earlier versions of this standard incorrectly required that the command:

           cal 2000

       write a one-month calendar for the current calendar month (no matter what the current year  is)  in  the  year
       2000 to standard output. This did not match historic practice in any known version of the cal utility. The de‐
       scription  has  been  updated  to  match historic practice.  When only the year operand is given, cal writes a
       twelve-month calendar for the specified year.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       A future version of this standard may support locale-specific recognition of the date of adoption of the  Gre‐
       gorian calendar.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 CAL(1P)
