CALLOC(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    CALLOC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       calloc — a memory allocator

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void *calloc(size_t nelem, size_t elsize);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The calloc() function shall allocate unused space for an array of nelem elements each of whose size  in  bytes
       is elsize.  The space shall be initialized to all bits 0.

       The  order and contiguity of storage allocated by successive calls to calloc() is unspecified. The pointer re‐
       turned if the allocation succeeds shall be suitably aligned so that it may be assigned to  a  pointer  to  any
       type  of object and then used to access such an object or an array of such objects in the space allocated (un‐
       til the space is explicitly freed or reallocated). Each such allocation shall yield a  pointer  to  an  object
       disjoint from any other object. The pointer returned shall point to the start (lowest byte address) of the al‐
       located  space.  If  the space cannot be allocated, a null pointer shall be returned. If the size of the space
       requested is 0, the behavior is implementation-defined: the value returned shall be either a null pointer or a
       unique pointer.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion with both nelem and elsize non-zero, calloc() shall return a pointer to  the  allo‐
       cated  space. If either nelem or elsize is 0, then either a null pointer or a unique pointer value that can be
       successfully passed to free() shall be returned. Otherwise, it shall return a null pointer and  set  errno  to
       indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The calloc() function shall fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory is available.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       There is now no requirement for the implementation to support the inclusion of <malloc.h>.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       free(), malloc(), realloc()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              CALLOC(3P)
