CAT(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       CAT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       cat — concatenate and print files

SYNOPSIS
       cat [−u] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The cat utility shall read files in sequence and shall write their contents to the standard output in the same
       sequence.

OPTIONS
       The  cat  utility  shall  conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −u        Write bytes from the input file to the standard output without delay as each is read.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of an input file. If no file operands are specified, the standard input shall be used. If
                 a file is '−', the cat utility shall read from the standard input at that point in the sequence. The
                 cat utility shall not close and reopen standard input when it is referenced in this way,  but  shall
                 accept multiple occurrences of '−' as a file operand.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used only if no file operands are specified, or if a file operand is '−'.  See the
       INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files can be any file type.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of cat:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall contain the sequence of bytes read from the input files. Nothing else shall be writ‐
       ten to the standard output.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    All input files were output successfully.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  −u  option has value in prototyping non-blocking reads from FIFOs. The intent is to support the following
       sequence:

           mkfifo foo
           cat −u foo > /dev/tty13 &
           cat −u > foo

       It is unspecified whether standard output is or is not buffered in the default case. This is sometimes of  in‐
       terest  when standard output is associated with a terminal, since buffering may delay the output. The presence
       of the −u option guarantees that unbuffered I/O is available. It is  implementation-defined  whether  the  cat
       utility  buffers  output  if the −u option is not specified. Traditionally, the −u option is implemented using
       the equivalent of the setvbuf() function defined in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

EXAMPLES
       The following command:

           cat myfile

       writes the contents of the file myfile to standard output.

       The following command:

           cat doc1 doc2 > doc.all

       concatenates the files doc1 and doc2 and writes the result to doc.all.

       Because of the shell language mechanism used to perform output redirection, a command such as this:

           cat doc doc.end > doc

       causes the original data in doc to be lost.

       The command:

           cat start − middle − end > file

       when standard input is a terminal, gets two arbitrary pieces of input from the terminal with a single  invoca‐
       tion  of  cat.   Note, however, that if standard input is a regular file, this would be equivalent to the com‐
       mand:

           cat start − middle /dev/null end > file

       because the entire contents of the file would be consumed by cat the first time '−' was used as a file operand
       and an end-of-file condition would be detected immediately when '−' was referenced the second time.

RATIONALE
       Historical versions of the cat utility include the −e, −t, and −v, options which permit  the  ends  of  lines,
       <tab>  characters,  and invisible characters, respectively, to be rendered visible in the output. The standard
       developers omitted these options because they provide too fine a degree of control over what is made  visible,
       and similar output can be obtained using a command such as:

           sed −n l pathname

       The latter also has the advantage that its output is unambiguous, whereas the output of historical cat −etv is
       not.

       The −s option was omitted because it corresponds to different functions in BSD and System V-based systems. The
       BSD −s option to squeeze blank lines can be accomplished by the shell script shown in the following example:

           sed −n '
           # Write non-empty lines.
           /./   {
                 p
                 d
                 }
           # Write a single empty line, then look for more empty lines.
           /^$/  p
           # Get next line, discard the held <newline> (empty line),
           # and look for more empty lines.
           :Empty
           /^$/  {
                 N
                 s/.//
                 b Empty
                 }
           # Write the non-empty line before going back to search
           # for the first in a set of empty lines.
                 p
           '

       The  System  V −s option to silence error messages can be accomplished by redirecting the standard error. Note
       that the BSD documentation for cat uses the term ``blank line'' to mean the same as the POSIX ``empty  line'':
       a line consisting only of a <newline>.

       The BSD −n option was omitted because similar functionality can be obtained from the −n option of the pr util‐
       ity.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       more

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, setvbuf()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 CAT(1P)
