CATGETS(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   CATGETS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       catgets — read a program message

SYNOPSIS
       #include <nl_types.h>

       char *catgets(nl_catd catd, int set_id, int msg_id, const char *s);

DESCRIPTION
       The  catgets()  function shall attempt to read message msg_id, in set set_id, from the message catalog identi‐
       fied by catd.  The catd argument is a message catalog descriptor returned from an earlier call  to  catopen().
       The results are undefined if catd is not a value returned by catopen() for a message catalog still open in the
       process.  The  s argument points to a default message string which shall be returned by catgets() if it cannot
       retrieve the identified message.

       The catgets() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       If the identified message is retrieved successfully, catgets() shall return a pointer to  an  internal  buffer
       area containing the null-terminated message string. If the call is unsuccessful for any reason, s shall be re‐
       turned and errno shall be set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The catgets() function shall fail if:

       EINTR  The read operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no data was transferred.

       ENOMSG The message identified by set_id and msg_id is not in the message catalog.

       The catgets() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The catd argument is not a valid message catalog descriptor open for reading.

       EBADMSG
              The  message identified by set_id and msg_id in the specified message catalog did not satisfy implemen‐
              tation-defined security criteria.

       EINVAL The message catalog identified by catd is corrupted.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       catclose(), catopen()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <nl_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             CATGETS(3P)
