CATOPEN(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   CATOPEN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       catopen — open a message catalog

SYNOPSIS
       #include <nl_types.h>

       nl_catd catopen(const char *name, int oflag);

DESCRIPTION
       The catopen() function shall open a message catalog and return a message catalog descriptor. The name argument
       specifies the name of the message catalog to be opened. If name contains a '/', then name specifies a complete
       name  for  the  message catalog. Otherwise, the environment variable NLSPATH is used with name substituted for
       the %N conversion specification (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Vari‐
       ables).  If NLSPATH exists in the environment when the process starts, then if  the  process  has  appropriate
       privileges, the behavior of catopen() is undefined. If NLSPATH does not exist in the environment, or if a mes‐
       sage catalog cannot be found in any of the components specified by NLSPATH, then an implementation-defined de‐
       fault  path shall be used. This default may be affected by the setting of LC_MESSAGES if the value of oflag is
       NL_CAT_LOCALE, or the LANG environment variable if oflag is 0.

       A message catalog descriptor shall remain valid in a process until that process closes  it,  or  a  successful
       call to one of the exec functions. A change in the setting of the LC_MESSAGES category may invalidate existing
       open catalogs.

       If  a  file descriptor is used to implement message catalog descriptors, the FD_CLOEXEC flag shall be set; see
       <fcntl.h>.

       If the value of the oflag argument is 0, the LANG environment variable is used to locate the  catalog  without
       regard  to  the LC_MESSAGES category. If the oflag argument is NL_CAT_LOCALE, the LC_MESSAGES category is used
       to locate the message catalog (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationaliza‐
       tion Variables).

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, catopen() shall return a message catalog descriptor for use on subsequent calls to
       catgets() and catclose().  Otherwise, catopen() shall return (nl_catd) −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The catopen() function may fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied for the component of the path prefix of the message catalog or read permis‐
              sion is denied for the message catalog.

       EMFILE All file descriptors available to the process are currently open.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       ENFILE Too many files are currently open in the system.

       ENOENT The message catalog does not exist or the name argument points to an empty string.

       ENOMEM Insufficient storage space is available.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  of the path prefix of the message catalog names an existing file that is neither a direc‐
              tory nor a symbolic link to a directory, or the pathname of the message catalog contains at  least  one
              non-<slash>  character and ends with one or more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname com‐
              ponent names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Some implementations of catopen() use malloc() to allocate space for  internal  buffer  areas.  The  catopen()
       function may fail if there is insufficient storage space available to accommodate these buffers.

       Conforming  applications must assume that message catalog descriptors are not valid after a call to one of the
       exec functions.

       Application developers should be aware that guidelines for the location of message catalogs have not yet  been
       developed.  Therefore  they should take care to avoid conflicting with catalogs used by other applications and
       the standard utilities.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       catclose(), catgets()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, <fcntl.h>, <nl_types.h>,

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             CATOPEN(3P)
