CEIL(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      CEIL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ceil, ceilf, ceill — ceiling value function

SYNOPSIS
       #include <math.h>

       double ceil(double x);
       float ceilf(float x);
       long double ceill(long double x);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall compute the smallest integral value not less than x.

RETURN VALUE
       The result shall have the same sign as x.

       Upon successful completion, ceil(), ceilf(), and ceill() shall return the smallest  integral  value  not  less
       than x, expressed as a type double, float, or long double, respectively.

       If x is NaN, a NaN shall be returned.

       If x is ±0 or ±Inf, x shall be returned.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  integral  value  returned  by  these  functions need not be expressible as an intmax_t.  The return value
       should be tested before assigning it to an integer type to avoid the undefined results of an integer overflow.

       These functions may raise the inexact floating-point exception if the result differs in value from  the  argu‐
       ment.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       feclearexcept(), fetestexcept(), floor(), isnan()

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.19, Treatment of Error Conditions for Mathematical
       Functions, <math.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                CEIL(3P)
