CFGETISPEED(3P)                               POSIX Programmer's Manual                               CFGETISPEED(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       cfgetispeed — get input baud rate

SYNOPSIS
       #include <termios.h>

       speed_t cfgetispeed(const struct termios *termios_p);

DESCRIPTION
       The cfgetispeed() function shall extract the input baud rate from the termios structure to which the termios_p
       argument points.

       This function shall return exactly the value in the termios data structure, without interpretation.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  cfgetispeed()  shall return a value of type speed_t representing the input baud
       rate.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The term ``baud'' is used historically here, but is not technically correct. This is properly ``bits per  sec‐
       ond'', which may not be the same as baud. However, the term is used because of the historical usage and under‐
       standing.

       The cfgetospeed(), cfgetispeed(), cfsetospeed(), and cfsetispeed() functions do not take arguments as numbers,
       but rather as symbolic names. There are two reasons for this:

        1. Historically,  numbers were not used because of the way the rate was stored in the data structure. This is
           retained even though a function is now used.

        2. More importantly, only a limited set of possible rates is at all portable, and this constrains the  appli‐
           cation to that set.

       There  is nothing to prevent an implementation accepting as an extension a number (such as 126), and since the
       encoding of the Bxxx symbols is not specified, this can be done to avoid introducing ambiguity.

       Setting the input baud rate to zero was a mechanism to allow for split baud rates. Clarifications in this vol‐
       ume of POSIX.1‐2008 have made it possible to determine whether split rates are supported and to  support  them
       without  having  to  treat zero as a special case. Since this functionality is also confusing, it has been de‐
       clared obsolescent.  The 0 argument referred to is the literal constant 0, not the symbolic constant B0.  This
       volume  of POSIX.1‐2008 does not preclude B0 from being defined as the value 0; in fact, implementations would
       likely benefit from the two being equivalent. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not fully specify  whether  the
       previous  cfsetispeed()  value is retained after a tcgetattr() as the actual value or as zero. Therefore, con‐
       forming applications should always set both the input speed and output speed when setting either.

       In historical implementations, the baud rate information  is  traditionally  kept  in  c_cflag.   Applications
       should  be written to presume that this might be the case (and thus not blindly copy c_cflag), but not to rely
       on it in case it is in some other field of the structure. Setting the c_cflag field absolutely after setting a
       baud rate is a non-portable action because of this. In general, the unused parts of the flag fields  might  be
       used  by  the  implementation and should not be blindly copied from the descriptions of one terminal device to
       another.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       cfgetospeed(), cfsetispeed(), cfsetospeed(), tcgetattr()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface, <termios.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                         CFGETISPEED(3P)
