CFSETISPEED(3P)                               POSIX Programmer's Manual                               CFSETISPEED(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       cfsetispeed — set input baud rate

SYNOPSIS
       #include <termios.h>

       int cfsetispeed(struct termios *termios_p, speed_t speed);

DESCRIPTION
       The  cfsetispeed()  function  shall set the input baud rate stored in the structure pointed to by termios_p to
       speed.

       There shall be no effect on the baud rates set in the hardware until a subsequent  successful  call  to  tcse‐
       tattr()  with the same termios structure. Similarly, errors resulting from attempts to set baud rates not sup‐
       ported by the terminal device need not be detected until the tcsetattr() function is called.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, cfsetispeed() shall return 0; otherwise, −1 shall be returned, and  errno  may  be
       set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The cfsetispeed() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The speed value is not a valid baud rate.

       EINVAL The value of speed is outside the range of possible speed values as specified in <termios.h>.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Refer to cfgetispeed().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       cfgetispeed(), cfgetospeed(), cfsetospeed(), tcsetattr()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface, <termios.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                         CFSETISPEED(3P)
