CHOWN(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     CHOWN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       chown, fchownat — change owner and group of a file relative to directory file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int chown(const char *path, uid_t owner, gid_t group);
       int fchownat(int fd, const char *path, uid_t owner, gid_t group,
           int flag);

DESCRIPTION
       The chown() function shall change the user and group ownership of a file.

       The  path argument points to a pathname naming a file. The user ID and group ID of the named file shall be set
       to the numeric values contained in owner and group, respectively.

       Only processes with an effective user ID equal to the user ID of the file or with appropriate  privileges  may
       change the ownership of a file. If _POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED is in effect for path:

        *  Changing the user ID is restricted to processes with appropriate privileges.

        *  Changing  the  group  ID  is  permitted to a process with an effective user ID equal to the user ID of the
           file, but without appropriate privileges, if and only if owner is equal to the file's user ID or (uid_t)−1
           and group is equal either to the calling process' effective group ID or to one of its supplementary  group
           IDs.

       If the specified file is a regular file, one or more of the S_IXUSR, S_IXGRP, or S_IXOTH bits of the file mode
       are  set,  and  the  process  does not have appropriate privileges, the set-user-ID (S_ISUID) and set-group-ID
       (S_ISGID) bits of the file mode shall be cleared upon successful return from chown().  If the  specified  file
       is  a  regular  file,  one  or more of the S_IXUSR, S_IXGRP, or S_IXOTH bits of the file mode are set, and the
       process has appropriate privileges, it is implementation-defined whether the set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits
       are altered. If the chown() function is successfully invoked on a file that is not a regular file and  one  or
       more  of the S_IXUSR, S_IXGRP, or S_IXOTH bits of the file mode are set, the set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits
       may be cleared.

       If owner or group is specified as (uid_t)−1 or (gid_t)−1, respectively, the corresponding ID of the file shall
       not be changed.  If both owner and group are −1, the times need not be updated.

       Upon successful completion, chown() shall mark for update the last file status change timestamp of the file.

       The fchownat() function shall be equivalent to the chown() and lchown() functions except  in  the  case  where
       path  specifies  a  relative path. In this case the file to be changed is determined relative to the directory
       associated with the file descriptor fd instead of the current working directory. If the  file  descriptor  was
       opened  without  O_SEARCH, the function shall check whether directory searches are permitted using the current
       permissions of the directory underlying the file descriptor. If the file descriptor was opened with  O_SEARCH,
       the function shall not perform the check.

       Values  for  flag  are constructed by a bitwise-inclusive OR of flags from the following list, defined in <fc‐
       ntl.h>:

       AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW
             If path names a symbolic link, ownership of the symbolic link is changed.

       If fchownat() is passed the special value AT_FDCWD in the fd parameter, the current working directory shall be
       used and the behavior shall be identical to a call to chown() or lchown() respectively, depending  on  whether
       or not the AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW bit is set in the flag argument.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  these functions shall return 0.  Otherwise, these functions shall return −1 and
       set errno to indicate the error. If −1 is returned, no changes are made in the user ID and  group  ID  of  the
       file.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link
              to a directory, or the path argument contains at least one non-<slash> character and ends with  one  or
              more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname component names an existing file that is neither
              a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       EPERM  The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file, or the calling process does not have appro‐
              priate privileges and _POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED indicates that such privilege is required.

       EROFS  The named file resides on a read-only file system.

       The fchownat() function shall fail if:

       EACCES fd was not opened with O_SEARCH and the permissions of the directory underlying fd do not permit direc‐
              tory searches.

       EBADF  The path argument does not specify an absolute path and the fd argument is neither AT_FDCWD nor a valid
              file descriptor open for reading or searching.

       ENOTDIR
              The  path  argument is not an absolute path and fd is a file descriptor associated with a non-directory
              file.

       These functions may fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading or writing to the file system.

       EINTR  The chown() function was interrupted by a signal which was caught.

       EINVAL The owner or group ID supplied is not a value supported by the implementation.

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The fchownat() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the flag argument is not valid.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Although  chown()  can  be used on some implementations by the file owner to change the owner and group to any
       desired values, the only portable use of this function is to change the group of a file to the  effective  GID
       of the calling process or to a member of its group set.

RATIONALE
       System  III  and System V allow a user to give away files; that is, the owner of a file may change its user ID
       to anything. This is a serious problem for implementations that are intended to meet government security regu‐
       lations.  Version 7 and 4.3 BSD permit only the superuser to change the user ID of  a  file.  Some  government
       agencies  (usually  not ones concerned directly with security) find this limitation too confining. This volume
       of POSIX.1‐2008 uses may to permit secure implementations while not disallowing System V.

       System III and System V allow the owner of a file to change the group ID to anything. Version 7  permits  only
       the superuser to change the group ID of a file.  4.3 BSD permits the owner to change the group ID of a file to
       its effective group ID or to any of the groups in the list of supplementary group IDs, but to no others.

       The  POSIX.1‐1990  standard requires that the chown() function invoked by a non-appropriate privileged process
       clear the S_ISGID and the S_ISUID bits for regular files, and permits them to be cleared for  other  types  of
       files. This is so that changes in accessibility do not accidentally cause files to become security holes.  Un‐
       fortunately,  requiring  these  bits to be cleared on non-executable data files also clears the mandatory file
       locking bit (shared with S_ISGID), which is an extension on many implementations (it first appeared in  System
       V).  These  bits should only be required to be cleared on regular files that have one or more of their execute
       bits set.

       The purpose of the fchownat() function is to enable changing ownership of files in directories other than  the
       current working directory without exposure to race conditions. Any part of the path of a file could be changed
       in  parallel to a call to chown() or lchown(), resulting in unspecified behavior. By opening a file descriptor
       for the target directory and using the fchownat() function it can be guaranteed that the changed file  is  lo‐
       cated relative to the desired directory.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chmod(), fpathconf(), lchown()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <fcntl.h>, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               CHOWN(3P)
