CLOCK(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     CLOCK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       clock — report CPU time used

SYNOPSIS
       #include <time.h>

       clock_t clock(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The clock() function shall return the implementation's best approximation to the processor time  used  by  the
       process since the beginning of an implementation-defined era related only to the process invocation.

RETURN VALUE
       To  determine  the  time in seconds, the value returned by clock() should be divided by the value of the macro
       CLOCKS_PER_SEC.  CLOCKS_PER_SEC is defined to be one million in <time.h>.  If the processor time used  is  not
       available or its value cannot be represented, the function shall return the value (clock_t)−1.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       In  order to measure the time spent in a program, clock() should be called at the start of the program and its
       return value subtracted from the value returned by subsequent calls. The value returned by clock() is  defined
       for compatibility across systems that have clocks with different resolutions. The resolution on any particular
       system need not be to microsecond accuracy.

       The  value  returned by clock() may wrap around on some implementations. For example, on a machine with 32-bit
       values for clock_t, it wraps after 2147 seconds or 36 minutes.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       asctime(), ctime(), difftime(), gmtime(), localtime(), mktime(), strftime(), strptime(), time(), utime()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               CLOCK(3P)
