CLOCK_NANOSLEEP(3P)                           POSIX Programmer's Manual                           CLOCK_NANOSLEEP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       clock_nanosleep — high resolution sleep with specifiable clock

SYNOPSIS
       #include <time.h>

       int clock_nanosleep(clockid_t clock_id, int flags,
           const struct timespec *rqtp, struct timespec *rmtp);

DESCRIPTION
       If  the  flag  TIMER_ABSTIME  is not set in the flags argument, the clock_nanosleep() function shall cause the
       current thread to be suspended from execution until either the time interval specified by  the  rqtp  argument
       has  elapsed,  or  a  signal  is delivered to the calling thread and its action is to invoke a signal-catching
       function, or the process is terminated. The clock used to measure the time shall be  the  clock  specified  by
       clock_id.

       If the flag TIMER_ABSTIME is set in the flags argument, the clock_nanosleep() function shall cause the current
       thread  to  be suspended from execution until either the time value of the clock specified by clock_id reaches
       the absolute time specified by the rqtp argument, or a signal is delivered to the calling thread and  its  ac‐
       tion  is to invoke a signal-catching function, or the process is terminated.  If, at the time of the call, the
       time value specified by rqtp is  less  than  or  equal  to  the  time  value  of  the  specified  clock,  then
       clock_nanosleep() shall return immediately and the calling process shall not be suspended.

       The suspension time caused by this function may be longer than requested because the argument value is rounded
       up  to an integer multiple of the sleep resolution, or because of the scheduling of other activity by the sys‐
       tem. But, except for the case of being  interrupted  by  a  signal,  the  suspension  time  for  the  relative
       clock_nanosleep()  function (that is, with the TIMER_ABSTIME flag not set) shall not be less than the time in‐
       terval specified  by  rqtp,  as  measured  by  the  corresponding  clock.  The  suspension  for  the  absolute
       clock_nanosleep()  function  (that  is, with the TIMER_ABSTIME flag set) shall be in effect at least until the
       value of the corresponding clock reaches the absolute time specified by rqtp, except for the case of being in‐
       terrupted by a signal.

       The use of the clock_nanosleep() function shall have no effect on the action or blockage of any signal.

       The clock_nanosleep() function shall fail if the clock_id argument refers to the CPU-time clock of the calling
       thread. It is unspecified whether clock_id values of other CPU-time clocks are allowed.

RETURN VALUE
       If the clock_nanosleep() function returns because the requested time has elapsed, its return  value  shall  be
       zero.

       If  the  clock_nanosleep()  function  returns because it has been interrupted by a signal, it shall return the
       corresponding error value. For the relative clock_nanosleep() function, if the rmtp argument is non-NULL,  the
       timespec  structure  referenced by it shall be updated to contain the amount of time remaining in the interval
       (the requested time minus the time actually slept). If the rmtp argument is NULL, the remaining  time  is  not
       returned. The absolute clock_nanosleep() function has no effect on the structure referenced by rmtp.

       If clock_nanosleep() fails, it shall return the corresponding error value.

ERRORS
       The clock_nanosleep() function shall fail if:

       EINTR  The clock_nanosleep() function was interrupted by a signal.

       EINVAL The rqtp argument specified a nanosecond value less than zero or greater than or equal to 1000 million;
              or  the  TIMER_ABSTIME  flag  was specified in flags and the rqtp argument is outside the range for the
              clock specified by clock_id; or the clock_id argument does not specify a known clock, or specifies  the
              CPU-time clock of the calling thread.

       ENOTSUP
              The  clock_id  argument  specifies a clock for which clock_nanosleep() is not supported, such as a CPU-
              time clock.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Calling clock_nanosleep() with the value TIMER_ABSTIME not set in the flags argument and with  a  clock_id  of
       CLOCK_REALTIME is equivalent to calling nanosleep() with the same rqtp and rmtp arguments.

RATIONALE
       The  nanosleep()  function  specifies that the system-wide clock CLOCK_REALTIME is used to measure the elapsed
       time for this time service. However, with the introduction of the monotonic clock CLOCK_MONOTONIC a new  rela‐
       tive sleep function is needed to allow an application to take advantage of the special characteristics of this
       clock.

       There  are  many  applications in which a process needs to be suspended and then activated multiple times in a
       periodic way; for example, to poll the status of a non-interrupting device or to refresh a display device. For
       these cases, it is known that precise periodic activation cannot  be  achieved  with  a  relative  sleep()  or
       nanosleep() function call. Suppose, for example, a periodic process that is activated at time T0, executes for
       a  while,  and then wants to suspend itself until time T0+T, the period being T.  If this process wants to use
       the nanosleep() function, it must first call clock_gettime() to get the current time, then calculate the  dif‐
       ference between the current time and T0+T and, finally, call nanosleep() using the computed interval. However,
       the process could be preempted by a different process between the two function calls, and in this case the in‐
       terval  computed  would  be  wrong; the process would wake up later than desired. This problem would not occur
       with the absolute clock_nanosleep() function, since only one function call would be necessary to  suspend  the
       process  until  the  desired  time.  In other cases, however, a relative sleep is needed, and that is why both
       functionalities are required.

       Although it is possible to implement periodic processes using the timers interface, this implementation  would
       require  the  use  of signals, and the reservation of some signal numbers. In this regard, the reasons for in‐
       cluding an absolute version of the clock_nanosleep() function in POSIX.1‐2008 are the same as for  the  inclu‐
       sion of the relative nanosleep().

       It  is  also  possible to implement precise periodic processes using pthread_cond_timedwait(), in which an ab‐
       solute timeout is specified that takes effect if the condition variable involved is never  signaled.  However,
       the  use  of  this  interface  is unnatural, and involves performing other operations on mutexes and condition
       variables that imply an unnecessary overhead.  Furthermore, pthread_cond_timedwait() is not available  in  im‐
       plementations that do not support threads.

       Although  the  interface of the relative and absolute versions of the new high resolution sleep service is the
       same clock_nanosleep() function, the rmtp argument is only used in the relative sleep. This argument is needed
       in the relative clock_nanosleep() function to reissue the function call if it is interrupted by a signal,  but
       it  is not needed in the absolute clock_nanosleep() function call; if the call is interrupted by a signal, the
       absolute clock_nanosleep() function can be invoked again with the same rqtp argument used in  the  interrupted
       call.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       clock_getres(), nanosleep(), pthread_cond_timedwait(), sleep()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                     CLOCK_NANOSLEEP(3P)
