CLOSE(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     CLOSE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       close — close a file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int close(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The  close()  function  shall deallocate the file descriptor indicated by fildes.  To deallocate means to make
       the file descriptor available for return by subsequent calls to open() or other functions that  allocate  file
       descriptors. All outstanding record locks owned by the process on the file associated with the file descriptor
       shall be removed (that is, unlocked).

       If  close()  is interrupted by a signal that is to be caught, it shall return −1 with errno set to [EINTR] and
       the state of fildes is unspecified. If an I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file  system
       during  close(),  it  may return −1 with errno set to [EIO]; if this error is returned, the state of fildes is
       unspecified.

       When all file descriptors associated with a pipe or FIFO special file are closed, any data  remaining  in  the
       pipe or FIFO shall be discarded.

       When all file descriptors associated with an open file description have been closed, the open file description
       shall be freed.

       If  the  link count of the file is 0, when all file descriptors associated with the file are closed, the space
       occupied by the file shall be freed and the file shall no longer be accessible.

       If a STREAMS-based fildes is closed and the calling process was previously registered  to  receive  a  SIGPOLL
       signal for events associated with that STREAM, the calling process shall be unregistered for events associated
       with the STREAM. The last close() for a STREAM shall cause the STREAM associated with fildes to be dismantled.
       If  O_NONBLOCK  is  not  set and there have been no signals posted for the STREAM, and if there is data on the
       module's write queue, close() shall wait for an unspecified time (for each module and driver) for  any  output
       to  drain  before dismantling the STREAM. The time delay can be changed via an I_SETCLTIME ioctl() request. If
       the O_NONBLOCK flag is set, or if there are any pending signals, close() shall not wait for output  to  drain,
       and shall dismantle the STREAM immediately.

       If  the implementation supports STREAMS-based pipes, and fildes is associated with one end of a pipe, the last
       close() shall cause a hangup to occur on the other end of the pipe. In addition, if the other end of the  pipe
       has  been named by fattach(), then the last close() shall force the named end to be detached by fdetach().  If
       the named end has no open file descriptors associated with it and gets detached, the  STREAM  associated  with
       that end shall also be dismantled.

       If fildes refers to the master side of a pseudo-terminal, and this is the last close, a SIGHUP signal shall be
       sent  to  the  controlling process, if any, for which the slave side of the pseudo-terminal is the controlling
       terminal. It is unspecified whether closing the master side of the pseudo-terminal flushes  all  queued  input
       and output.

       If  fildes  refers  to the slave side of a STREAMS-based pseudo-terminal, a zero-length message may be sent to
       the master.

       When there is an outstanding cancelable asynchronous I/O operation against fildes when close() is called, that
       I/O operation may be canceled. An I/O operation that is not canceled completes as if the close() operation had
       not yet occurred. All operations that are not canceled shall complete as if the close() blocked until the  op‐
       erations  completed. The close() operation itself need not block awaiting such I/O completion. Whether any I/O
       operation is canceled, and which I/O operation may be canceled upon close(), is implementation-defined.

       If a memory mapped file or a shared memory object remains referenced at the last close (that is, a process has
       it mapped), then the entire contents of the memory object shall persist until the memory object becomes unref‐
       erenced.  If this is the last close of a memory mapped file or a shared memory object and the close results in
       the memory object becoming unreferenced, and the memory object has been unlinked, then the memory object shall
       be removed.

       If fildes refers to a socket, close() shall cause the socket to be destroyed. If the socket is in  connection-
       mode, and the SO_LINGER option is set for the socket with non-zero linger time, and the socket has untransmit‐
       ted data, then close() shall block for up to the current linger interval until all data is transmitted.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned; otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The close() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a open file descriptor.

       EINTR  The close() function was interrupted by a signal.

       The close() function may fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Reassigning a File Descriptor
       The  following example closes the file descriptor associated with standard output for the current process, re-
       assigns standard output to a new file descriptor, and closes the original file descriptor to  clean  up.  This
       example assumes that the file descriptor 0 (which is the descriptor for standard input) is not closed.

           #include <unistd.h>
           ...
           int pfd;
           ...
           close(1);
           dup(pfd);
           close(pfd);
           ...

       Incidentally, this is exactly what could be achieved using:

           dup2(pfd, 1);
           close(pfd);

   Closing a File Descriptor
       In  the following example, close() is used to close a file descriptor after an unsuccessful attempt is made to
       associate that file descriptor with a stream.

           #include <stdio.h>
           #include <unistd.h>
           #include <stdlib.h>

           #define LOCKFILE "/etc/ptmp"
           ...
           int pfd;
           FILE *fpfd;
           ...
           if ((fpfd = fdopen (pfd, "w")) == NULL) {
               close(pfd);
               unlink(LOCKFILE);
               exit(1);
           }
           ...

APPLICATION USAGE
       An application that had used the stdio routine fopen() to open a file should use  the  corresponding  fclose()
       routine  rather  than close().  Once a file is closed, the file descriptor no longer exists, since the integer
       corresponding to it no longer refers to a file.

       Implementations may use file descriptors that must be inherited into child processes for the child process  to
       remain  conforming,  such  as  for  message  catalog or tracing purposes. Therefore, an application that calls
       close() on an arbitrary integer risks non-conforming behavior, and close() can only portably be used  on  file
       descriptor  values  that  the application has obtained through explicit actions, as well as the three file de‐
       scriptors corresponding to the standard file streams. In multi-threaded parent applications, the  practice  of
       calling  close()  in a loop after fork() and before an exec call in order to avoid a race condition of leaking
       an unintended file descriptor into a child process, is therefore unsafe, and the race should instead  be  com‐
       batted  by  opening all file descriptors with the FD_CLOEXEC bit set unless the file descriptor is intended to
       be inherited across exec.

RATIONALE
       The use of interruptible device close routines should be discouraged  to  avoid  problems  with  the  implicit
       closes of file descriptors by exec and exit().  This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 only intends to permit such behav‐
       ior by specifying the [EINTR] error condition.

       Note that the requirement for close() on a socket to block for up to the current linger interval is not condi‐
       tional on the O_NONBLOCK setting.

       The  standard  developers rejected a proposal to add closefrom() to the standard. Because the standard permits
       implementations to use inherited file descriptors as a means of providing a  conforming  environment  for  the
       child  process,  it is not possible to standardize an interface that closes arbitrary file descriptors above a
       certain value while still guaranteeing a conforming environment.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.6, STREAMS, exec, fattach(), fclose(), fdetach(), fopen(), ioctl(), open(), unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               CLOSE(3P)
