CMP(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       CMP(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       cmp — compare two files

SYNOPSIS
       cmp [−l|−s] file1 file2

DESCRIPTION
       The  cmp utility shall compare two files. The cmp utility shall write no output if the files are the same. Un‐
       der default options, if they differ, it shall write to standard output the byte and line number at  which  the
       first difference occurred. Bytes and lines shall be numbered beginning with 1.

OPTIONS
       The  cmp  utility  shall  conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −l        (Lowercase ell.) Write the byte number (decimal) and the differing bytes (octal)  for  each  differ‐
                 ence.

       −s        Write nothing for differing files; return exit status only.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       file1     A pathname of the first file to be compared. If file1 is '−', the standard input shall be used.

       file2     A pathname of the second file to be compared. If file2 is '−', the standard input shall be used.

       If both file1 and file2 refer to standard input or refer to the same FIFO special, block special, or character
       special file, the results are undefined.

STDIN
       The  standard  input  shall be used only if the file1 or file2 operand refers to standard input. See the INPUT
       FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files can be any file type.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of cmp:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       In the POSIX locale, results of the comparison shall be written to standard output. When no options are  used,
       the format shall be:

           "%s %s differ: char %d, line %d\n", file1, file2,
               <byte number>, <line number>

       When the −l option is used, the format shall be:

           "%d %o %o\n", <byte number>, <differing byte>,
               <differing byte>

       for  each  byte  that differs. The first <differing byte> number is from file1 while the second is from file2.
       In both cases, <byte number> shall be relative to the beginning of the file, beginning with 1.

       No output shall be written to standard output when the −s option is used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages. If the −l option is used and  file1  and  file2
       differ  in  length, or if the −s option is not used and file1 and file2 are identical for the entire length of
       the shorter file, in the POSIX locale the following diagnostic message shall be written:

           "cmp: EOF on %s%s\n", <name of shorter file>, <additional info>

       The <additional info> field shall either be null or a string that starts with a <blank> and contains no  <new‐
       line> characters. Some implementations report on the number of lines in this case.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    The files are identical.

        1    The  files  are  different;  this includes the case where one file is identical to the first part of the
             other.

       >1    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Although input files to cmp can be any type, the results might not be what would be expected on character spe‐
       cial device files or on file types not described by the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008.  Since  this
       volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not specify the block size used when doing input, comparisons of character special
       files need not compare all of the data in those files.

       For  files  which are not text files, line numbers simply reflect the presence of a <newline>, without any im‐
       plication that the file is organized into lines.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The global language in Section 1.4, Utility Description Defaults indicates that using  two  mutually-exclusive
       options together produces unspecified results. Some System V implementations consider the option usage:

           cmp −l −s ...

       to be an error. They also treat:

           cmp −s −l ...

       as if no options were specified. Both of these behaviors are considered bugs, but are allowed.

       The  word  char  in  the standard output format comes from historical usage, even though it is actually a byte
       number. When cmp is supported in other locales, implementations are encouraged to use the  word  byte  or  its
       equivalent  in another language. Users should not interpret this difference to indicate that the functionality
       of the utility changed between locales.

       Some implementations report on the number of lines in the identical-but-shorter file case. This is allowed  by
       the  inclusion  of  the  <additional info>  fields  in  the output format. The restriction on having a leading
       <blank> and no <newline> characters is to make parsing for the filename easier. It  is  recognized  that  some
       filenames  containing  white-space characters make parsing difficult anyway, but the restriction does aid pro‐
       grams used on systems where the names are predominantly well behaved.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       comm, diff

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 CMP(1P)
