COMMAND(1P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   COMMAND(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       command — execute a simple command

SYNOPSIS
       command [−p] command_name [argument...]

       command [−p][−v|−V] command_name

DESCRIPTION
       The  command  utility  shall cause the shell to treat the arguments as a simple command, suppressing the shell
       function lookup that is described in Section 2.9.1.1, Command Search and Execution, item 1b.

       If the command_name is the same as the name of one of the special built-in utilities, the  special  properties
       in  the enumerated list at the beginning of Section 2.14, Special Built-In Utilities shall not occur. In every
       other respect, if command_name is not the name of a function, the effect of command (with no options) shall be
       the same as omitting command.

       When the −v or −V option is used, the command utility shall provide information concerning how a command  name
       is interpreted by the shell.

OPTIONS
       The command utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −p        Perform  the  command  search  using  a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to find all of the
                 standard utilities.

       −v        Write a string to standard output that indicates the pathname or command that will be  used  by  the
                 shell,  in  the current shell execution environment (see Section 2.12, Shell Execution Environment),
                 to invoke command_name, but do not invoke command_name.

                  *  Utilities, regular built-in utilities, command_names including a <slash> character, and any  im‐
                     plementation-defined  functions  that are found using the PATH variable (as described in Section
                     2.9.1.1, Command Search and Execution), shall be written as absolute pathnames.

                  *  Shell functions, special built-in utilities, regular built-in utilities not  associated  with  a
                     PATH search, and shell reserved words shall be written as just their names.

                  *  An alias shall be written as a command line that represents its alias definition.

                  *  Otherwise,  no  output  shall be written and the exit status shall reflect that the name was not
                     found.

       −V        Write a string to standard output that indicates how the name given in the command_name operand will
                 be interpreted by the shell, in the current shell execution environment (see Section 2.12, Shell Ex‐
                 ecution Environment), but do not invoke command_name.  Although the format of this string is unspec‐
                 ified, it shall indicate in which of the following categories command_name falls and  shall  include
                 the information stated:

                  *  Utilities,  regular  built-in utilities, and any implementation-defined functions that are found
                     using the PATH variable (as described in Section 2.9.1.1, Command Search and  Execution),  shall
                     be identified as such and include the absolute pathname in the string.

                  *  Other shell functions shall be identified as functions.

                  *  Aliases shall be identified as aliases and their definitions included in the string.

                  *  Special built-in utilities shall be identified as special built-in utilities.

                  *  Regular  built-in  utilities  not  associated  with a PATH search shall be identified as regular
                     built-in utilities. (The term ``regular'' need not be used.)

                  *  Shell reserved words shall be identified as reserved words.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       argument  One of the strings treated as an argument to command_name.

       command_name
                 The name of a utility or a special built-in utility.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of command:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       PATH      Determine the search path used during the command  search  described  in  Section  2.9.1.1,  Command
                 Search and Execution, except as described under the −p option.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       When the −v option is specified, standard output shall be formatted as:

           "%s\n", <pathname or command>

       When the −V option is specified, standard output shall be formatted as:

           "%s\n", <unspecified>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       When the −v or −V options are specified, the following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    The command_name could not be found or an error occurred.

       Otherwise, the following exit values shall be returned:

       126   The utility specified by command_name was found but could not be invoked.

       127   An error occurred in the command utility or the utility specified by command_name could not be found.

       Otherwise,  the  exit status of command shall be that of the simple command specified by the arguments to com‐
       mand.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The order for command search allows functions to override regular built-ins and path searches. This utility is
       necessary to allow functions that have the same name as a utility to call the utility (instead of a  recursive
       call to the function).

       The  system  default  path is available using getconf; however, since getconf may need to have the PATH set up
       before it can be called itself, the following can be used:

           command −p getconf PATH

       There are some advantages to suppressing the special characteristics of special built-ins on occasion. For ex‐
       ample:

           command exec > unwritable-file

       does not cause a non-interactive script to abort, so that the output status can be checked by the script.

       The command, env, nohup, time, and xargs utilities have been specified to use exit code 127 if an error occurs
       so that applications can distinguish ``failure to find a utility'' from ``invoked utility exited with an error
       indication''. The value 127 was chosen because it is not commonly used for other meanings; most utilities  use
       small  values for ``normal error conditions'' and the values above 128 can be confused with termination due to
       receipt of a signal. The value 126 was chosen in a similar manner to indicate that the utility could be found,
       but not invoked. Some scripts produce meaningful error messages differentiating the 126  and  127  cases.  The
       distinction  between  exit codes 126 and 127 is based on KornShell practice that uses 127 when all attempts to
       exec the utility fail with [ENOENT], and uses 126 when any attempt to exec the utility  fails  for  any  other
       reason.

       Since  the −v and −V options of command produce output in relation to the current shell execution environment,
       command is generally provided as a shell regular built-in. If it is called in a subshell or  separate  utility
       execution environment, such as one of the following:

           (PATH=foo command −v)
            nohup command −v

       it does not necessarily produce correct results. For example, when called with nohup or an exec function, in a
       separate  utility  execution environment, most implementations are not able to identify aliases, functions, or
       special built-ins.

       Two types of regular built-ins could be encountered on a system and these are described separately by command.
       The description of command search in Section 2.9.1.1, Command Search and Execution allows for a standard util‐
       ity to be implemented as a regular built-in as long as it is found in the appropriate place in a PATH  search.
       So,  for example, command −v true might yield /bin/true or some similar pathname. Other implementation-defined
       utilities that are not defined by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 might exist only as built-ins and have no  path‐
       name  associated  with them. These produce output identified as (regular) built-ins. Applications encountering
       these are not able to count on execing them, using them with nohup, overriding them with a different PATH, and
       so on.

EXAMPLES
        1. Make a version of cd that always prints out the new working directory exactly once:

               cd() {
                   command cd "$@" >/dev/null
                   pwd
               }

        2. Start off a ``secure shell script'' in which the script avoids being spoofed by its parent:

               IFS='
               '
               #    The preceding value should be <space><tab><newline>.
               #    Set IFS to its default value.

               \unalias −a
               #    Unset all possible aliases.
               #    Note that unalias is escaped to prevent an alias
               #    being used for unalias.

               unset −f command
               #    Ensure command is not a user function.

               PATH="$(command −p getconf PATH):$PATH"
               #    Put on a reliable PATH prefix.

               #    ...

           At this point, given correct permissions on the directories called by PATH, the script has the ability  to
           ensure  that  any  utility it calls is the intended one. It is being very cautious because it assumes that
           implementation extensions may be present that would allow user functions to exist when it is invoked; this
           capability is not specified by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, but it is not prohibited as an extension.  For
           example, the ENV variable precedes the invocation of the script with a user start-up script. Such a script
           could define functions to spoof the application.

RATIONALE
       Since command is a regular built-in utility it is always found prior to the PATH search.

       There  is  nothing  in the description of command that implies the command line is parsed any differently from
       that of any other simple command. For example:

           command a | b ; c

       is not parsed in any special way that causes '|' or ';' to be treated other than a  pipe  operator  or  <semi‐
       colon> or that prevents function lookup on b or c.

       The  command  utility  is somewhat similar to the Eighth Edition shell builtin command, but since command also
       goes to the file system to search for utilities, the name builtin would not be intuitive.

       The command utility is most likely to be provided as a regular built-in. It is not listed as a special  built-
       in for the following reasons:

        *  The removal of exportable functions made the special precedence of a special built-in unnecessary.

        *  A  special  built-in has special properties (see Section 2.14, Special Built-In Utilities) that were inap‐
           propriate for invoking other utilities. For example, two commands such as:

               date > unwritable-file

               command date > unwritable-file

           would have entirely different results; in a non-interactive script, the former would continue  to  execute
           the  next  command,  the  latter  would abort. Introducing this semantic difference along with suppressing
           functions was seen to be non-intuitive.

       The −p option is present because it is useful to be able to ensure a safe path search that finds all the stan‐
       dard utilities. This search might not be identical to the one that occurs through one of  the  exec  functions
       (as  defined in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008) when PATH is unset. At the very least, this fea‐
       ture is required to allow the script to access the correct version of getconf so that the value of the default
       path can be accurately retrieved.

       The command −v and −V options were added to satisfy requirements from users that are currently accomplished by
       three different historical utilities: type in the System V shell, whence in the KornShell, and which in the  C
       shell.  Since  there  is no historical agreement on how and what to accomplish here, the POSIX command utility
       was enhanced and the historical utilities were left unmodified.  The C shell  which  merely  conducts  a  path
       search.  The  KornShell  whence is more elaborate—in addition to the categories required by POSIX, it also re‐
       ports on tracked aliases, exported aliases, and undefined functions.

       The output format of −V was left mostly unspecified because human users are its only  audience.   Applications
       should  not  be written to care about this information; they can use the output of −v to differentiate between
       various types of commands, but the additional information that may be emitted by the more verbose  −V  is  not
       needed and should not be arbitrarily constrained in its verbosity or localization for application parsing rea‐
       sons.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section  2.9.1.1,  Command Search and Execution, Section 2.12, Shell Execution Environment, Section 2.14, Spe‐
       cial Built-In Utilities, sh, type

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, exec

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             COMMAND(1P)
