CONNECT(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   CONNECT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       connect — connect a socket

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int connect(int socket, const struct sockaddr *address,
           socklen_t address_len);

DESCRIPTION
       The  connect()  function shall attempt to make a connection on a connection-mode socket or to set or reset the
       peer address of a connectionless-mode socket. The function takes the following arguments:

       socket      Specifies the file descriptor associated with the socket.

       address     Points to a sockaddr structure containing the peer address. The length and format of  the  address
                   depend on the address family of the socket.

       address_len Specifies the length of the sockaddr structure pointed to by the address argument.

       If  the socket has not already been bound to a local address, connect() shall bind it to an address which, un‐
       less the socket's address family is AF_UNIX, is an unused local address.

       If the initiating socket is not connection-mode, then connect() shall set the socket's peer  address,  and  no
       connection is made. For SOCK_DGRAM sockets, the peer address identifies where all datagrams are sent on subse‐
       quent  send() functions, and limits the remote sender for subsequent recv() functions. If the sa_family member
       of address is AF_UNSPEC, the socket's peer address shall be reset. Note that despite no connection being made,
       the term ``connected'' is used to describe a connectionless-mode socket for which a peer address has been set.

       If the initiating socket is connection-mode, then connect() shall attempt to establish a connection to the ad‐
       dress specified by the address argument. If the connection cannot be established immediately and O_NONBLOCK is
       not set for the file descriptor for the socket, connect() shall block for up to an unspecified timeout  inter‐
       val until the connection is established. If the timeout interval expires before the connection is established,
       connect() shall fail and the connection attempt shall be aborted. If connect() is interrupted by a signal that
       is  caught while blocked waiting to establish a connection, connect() shall fail and set errno to [EINTR], but
       the connection request shall not be aborted, and the connection shall be established asynchronously.

       If the connection cannot be established immediately and O_NONBLOCK is set for  the  file  descriptor  for  the
       socket,  connect() shall fail and set errno to [EINPROGRESS], but the connection request shall not be aborted,
       and the connection shall be established asynchronously. Subsequent calls to connect() for the same socket, be‐
       fore the connection is established, shall fail and set errno to [EALREADY].

       When the connection has been established asynchronously, pselect(), select(), and poll() shall  indicate  that
       the file descriptor for the socket is ready for writing.

       The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges to use the connect() function.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion, connect() shall return 0; otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       The connect() function shall fail if:

       EADDRNOTAVAIL
              The specified address is not available from the local machine.

       EAFNOSUPPORT
              The specified address is not a valid address for the address family of the specified socket.

       EALREADY
              A connection request is already in progress for the specified socket.

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ECONNREFUSED
              The target address was not listening for connections or refused the connection request.

       EINPROGRESS
              O_NONBLOCK is set for the file descriptor for the socket and the connection cannot be  immediately  es‐
              tablished; the connection shall be established asynchronously.

       EINTR  The attempt to establish a connection was interrupted by delivery of a signal that was caught; the con‐
              nection shall be established asynchronously.

       EISCONN
              The specified socket is connection-mode and is already connected.

       ENETUNREACH
              No route to the network is present.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EPROTOTYPE
              The specified address has a different type than the socket bound to the specified peer address.

       ETIMEDOUT
              The attempt to connect timed out before a connection was made.

       If the address family of the socket is AF_UNIX, then connect() shall fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the pathname in address.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of the pathname does not name an existing file or the pathname is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component of the path prefix of the pathname in address names an existing file that is neither a di‐
              rectory nor a symbolic link to  a  directory,  or  the  pathname  in  address  contains  at  least  one
              non-<slash>  character and ends with one or more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname com‐
              ponent names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       The connect() function may fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix; or write access to the named socket  is
              denied.

       EADDRINUSE
              Attempt to establish a connection that uses addresses that are already in use.

       ECONNRESET
              Remote host reset the connection request.

       EHOSTUNREACH
              The  destination  host  cannot  be reached (probably because the host is down or a remote router cannot
              reach it).

       EINVAL The address_len argument is not a valid length for the address family; or invalid address family in the
              sockaddr structure.

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the pathname in address.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       ENETDOWN
              The local network interface used to reach the destination is down.

       ENOBUFS
              No buffer space is available.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The socket is listening and cannot be connected.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If  connect() fails, the state of the socket is unspecified. Conforming applications should close the file de‐
       scriptor and create a new socket before attempting to reconnect.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       accept(), bind(), close(), getsockname(), poll(), pselect(), send(), shutdown(), socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             CONNECT(3P)
