CONNECT(2)                                    Linux Programmer's Manual                                    CONNECT(2)

NAME
       connect - initiate a connection on a socket

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/types.h>          /* See NOTES */
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int connect(int sockfd, const struct sockaddr *addr,
                   socklen_t addrlen);

DESCRIPTION
       The  connect() system call connects the socket referred to by the file descriptor sockfd to the address speci‐
       fied by addr.  The addrlen argument specifies the size of addr.  The format of the address in addr  is  deter‐
       mined by the address space of the socket sockfd; see socket(2) for further details.

       If  the  socket sockfd is of type SOCK_DGRAM, then addr is the address to which datagrams are sent by default,
       and the only address from which datagrams are received.  If the socket is of  type  SOCK_STREAM  or  SOCK_SEQ‐
       PACKET, this call attempts to make a connection to the socket that is bound to the address specified by addr.

       Generally,  connection-based  protocol  sockets  may successfully connect() only once; connectionless protocol
       sockets may use connect() multiple times to change their association.  Connectionless sockets may dissolve the
       association by connecting to an address with the sa_family member of sockaddr set to AF_UNSPEC  (supported  on
       Linux since kernel 2.2).

RETURN VALUE
       If the connection or binding succeeds, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set appropri‐
       ately.

ERRORS
       The following are general socket errors only.  There may be other domain-specific error codes.

       EACCES For  UNIX  domain  sockets,  which are identified by pathname: Write permission is denied on the socket
              file, or search permission is denied for one  of  the  directories  in  the  path  prefix.   (See  also
              path_resolution(7).)

       EACCES, EPERM
              The  user  tried  to connect to a broadcast address without having the socket broadcast flag enabled or
              the connection request failed because of a local firewall rule.

       EADDRINUSE
              Local address is already in use.

       EADDRNOTAVAIL
              (Internet domain sockets) The socket referred to by sockfd had not previously been bound to an  address
              and,  upon  attempting  to bind it to an ephemeral port, it was determined that all port numbers in the
              ephemeral  port  range  are  currently  in  use.   See  the  discussion  of   /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_lo‐
              cal_port_range in ip(7).

       EAFNOSUPPORT
              The passed address didn't have the correct address family in its sa_family field.

       EAGAIN Insufficient entries in the routing cache.

       EALREADY
              The socket is nonblocking and a previous connection attempt has not yet been completed.

       EBADF  sockfd is not a valid open file descriptor.

       ECONNREFUSED
              A connect() on a stream socket found no one listening on the remote address.

       EFAULT The socket structure address is outside the user's address space.

       EINPROGRESS
              The  socket  is  nonblocking and the connection cannot be completed immediately.  It is possible to se‐
              lect(2) or poll(2) for completion by selecting the  socket  for  writing.   After  select(2)  indicates
              writability,  use  getsockopt(2)  to  read the SO_ERROR option at level SOL_SOCKET to determine whether
              connect() completed successfully (SO_ERROR is zero) or unsuccessfully (SO_ERROR is one of the usual er‐
              ror codes listed here, explaining the reason for the failure).

       EINTR  The system call was interrupted by a signal that was caught; see signal(7).

       EISCONN
              The socket is already connected.

       ENETUNREACH
              Network is unreachable.

       ENOTSOCK
              The file descriptor sockfd does not refer to a socket.

       EPROTOTYPE
              The socket type does not support the requested communications protocol.  This error can occur, for  ex‐
              ample, on an attempt to connect a UNIX domain datagram socket to a stream socket.

       ETIMEDOUT
              Timeout  while attempting connection.  The server may be too busy to accept new connections.  Note that
              for IP sockets the timeout may be very long when syncookies are enabled on the server.

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4, 4.4BSD, (connect() first appeared in 4.2BSD).

NOTES
       POSIX.1 does not require the inclusion of <sys/types.h>, and this header file is not required on Linux.   How‐
       ever,  some historical (BSD) implementations required this header file, and portable applications are probably
       wise to include it.

       For background on the socklen_t type, see accept(2).

       If connect() fails, consider the state of the socket as unspecified.  Portable applications should  close  the
       socket and create a new one for reconnecting.

EXAMPLE
       An example of the use of connect() is shown in getaddrinfo(3).

SEE ALSO
       accept(2), bind(2), getsockname(2), listen(2), socket(2), path_resolution(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is part of release 4.15 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, information
       about   reporting   bugs,   and    the    latest    version    of    this    page,    can    be    found    at
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.

Linux                                                 2017-09-15                                           CONNECT(2)
