CPROJ(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     CPROJ(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       cproj, cprojf, cprojl — complex projection functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <complex.h>

       double complex cproj(double complex z);
       float complex cprojf(float complex z);
       long double complex cprojl(long double complex z);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall compute a projection of z onto the Riemann sphere: z projects to z, except that all com‐
       plex infinities (even those with one infinite part and one NaN part) project to positive infinity on the  real
       axis. If z has an infinite part, then cproj(z) shall be equivalent to:

           INFINITY + I * copysign(0.0, cimag(z))

RETURN VALUE
       These functions shall return the value of the projection onto the Riemann sphere.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Two  topologies  are commonly used in complex mathematics: the complex plane with its continuum of infinities,
       and the Riemann sphere with its single infinity. The complex plane is better suited for  transcendental  func‐
       tions,  the  Riemann  sphere  for algebraic functions. The complex types with their multiplicity of infinities
       provide a useful (though imperfect) model for the complex plane. The cproj() function helps model the  Riemann
       sphere by mapping all infinities to one, and should be used just before any operation, especially comparisons,
       that  might give spurious results for any of the other infinities. Note that a complex value with one infinite
       part and one NaN part is regarded as an infinity, not a NaN, because if one  part  is  infinite,  the  complex
       value  is infinite independent of the value of the other part. For the same reason, cabs() returns an infinity
       if its argument has an infinite part and a NaN part.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       carg(), cimag(), conj(), creal()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <complex.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               CPROJ(3P)
