CSPLIT(1P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    CSPLIT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       csplit — split files based on context

SYNOPSIS
       csplit [−ks] [−f prefix] [−n number] file arg...

DESCRIPTION
       The  csplit  utility  shall read the file named by the file operand, write all or part of that file into other
       files as directed by the arg operands, and write the sizes of the files.

OPTIONS
       The csplit utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −f prefix Name the created files prefix00, prefix01, ..., prefixn.  The default is xx00 ...  xxn.  If the pre‐
                 fix argument would create a filename exceeding {NAME_MAX} bytes, an error shall result, csplit shall
                 exit with a diagnostic message, and no files shall be created.

       −k        Leave previously created files intact. By default, csplit shall remove created files if an error oc‐
                 curs.

       −n number Use number decimal digits to form filenames for the file pieces. The default shall be 2.

       −s        Suppress the output of file size messages.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       file      The pathname of a text file to be split. If file is '−', the standard input shall be used.

       Each arg operand can be one of the following:

       /rexp/[offset]
                 A  file shall be created using the content of the lines from the current line up to, but not includ‐
                 ing, the line that results from the evaluation of the regular expression with offset,  if  any,  ap‐
                 plied. The regular expression rexp shall follow the rules for basic regular expressions described in
                 the  Base  Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 9.3, Basic Regular Expressions.  The applica‐
                 tion shall use the sequence "\/" to specify a <slash> character within the rexp.  The optional  off‐
                 set shall be a positive or negative integer value representing a number of lines. A positive integer
                 value  can  be  preceded  by  '+'.  If the selection of lines from an offset expression of this type
                 would create a file with zero lines, or one with greater than the number of lines left in the  input
                 file,  the  results  are unspecified. After the section is created, the current line shall be set to
                 the line that results from the evaluation of the regular expression with any offset applied. If  the
                 current  line is the first line in the file and a regular expression operation has not yet been per‐
                 formed, the pattern match of rexp shall be applied from the current line to the  end  of  the  file.
                 Otherwise,  the  pattern  match of rexp shall be applied from the line following the current line to
                 the end of the file.

       %rexp%[offset]
                 Equivalent to /rexp/[offset], except that no file shall be created for the selected section  of  the
                 input file. The application shall use the sequence "\%" to specify a <percent-sign> character within
                 the rexp.

       line_no   Create a file from the current line up to (but not including) the line number line_no.  Lines in the
                 file shall be numbered starting at one. The current line becomes line_no.

       {num}     Repeat  operand.  This  operand can follow any of the operands described previously. If it follows a
                 rexp type operand, that operand shall be applied num more times. If it follows  a  line_no  operand,
                 the file shall be split every line_no lines, num times, from that point.

       An error shall be reported if an operand does not reference a line between the current position and the end of
       the file.

STDIN
       See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input file shall be a text file.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of csplit:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_COLLATE
                 Determine  the locale for the behavior of ranges, equivalence classes, and multi-character collating
                 elements within regular expressions.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example,  single-byte  as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files) and the be‐
                 havior of character classes within regular expressions.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       If the −k option is specified, created files shall be retained. Otherwise, the default action occurs.

STDOUT
       Unless the −s option is used, the standard output shall consist of one line per file created, with a format as
       follows:

           "%d\n", <file size in bytes>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The output files shall contain portions of the original input file; otherwise, unchanged.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       By  default, created files shall be removed if an error occurs. When the −k option is specified, created files
       shall not be removed if an error occurs.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
        1. This example creates four files, cobol00 ...  cobol03:

               csplit −f cobol file '/procedure division/' /par5./ /par16./

           After editing the split files, they can be recombined as follows:

               cat cobol0[0−3] > file

           Note that this example overwrites the original file.

        2. This example would split the file after the first 99 lines, and every 100 lines  thereafter,  up  to  9999
           lines; this is because lines in the file are numbered from 1 rather than zero, for historical reasons:

               csplit −k file  100  {99}

        3. Assuming  that prog.c follows the C-language coding convention of ending routines with a '}' at the begin‐
           ning of the line, this example creates a file containing each separate C routine (up to 21) in prog.c:

               csplit −k prog.c '%main(%'  '/^}/+1' {20}

RATIONALE
       The −n option was added to extend the range of filenames that could be handled.

       Consideration was given to adding a −a flag to use the alphabetic filename generation used by  the  historical
       split utility, but the functionality added by the −n option was deemed to make alphabetic naming unnecessary.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       sed, split

       The  Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 9.3, Basic Regular Ex‐
       pressions, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              CSPLIT(1P)
