CTERMID(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   CTERMID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ctermid — generate a pathname for the controlling terminal

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       char *ctermid(char *s);

DESCRIPTION
       The  ctermid()  function shall generate a string that, when used as a pathname, refers to the current control‐
       ling terminal for the current process. If ctermid() returns a pathname, access to the file is not guaranteed.

       The ctermid() function need not be thread-safe if called with a NULL parameter.

RETURN VALUE
       If s is a null pointer, the string shall be generated in an area that may be  static,  the  address  of  which
       shall be returned. The application shall not modify the string returned. The returned pointer might be invali‐
       dated  or  the  string  content  might  be  overwritten by a subsequent call to ctermid().  If s is not a null
       pointer, s is assumed to point to a character array of at least L_ctermid bytes; the string is placed in  this
       array and the value of s shall be returned. The symbolic constant L_ctermid is defined in <stdio.h>, and shall
       have a value greater than 0.

       The ctermid() function shall return an empty string if the pathname that would refer to the controlling termi‐
       nal cannot be determined, or if the function is unsuccessful.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Determining the Controlling Terminal for the Current Process
       The  following  example returns a pointer to a string that identifies the controlling terminal for the current
       process. The pathname for the terminal is stored in the array pointed to by the ptr argument, which has a size
       of L_ctermid bytes, as indicated by the term argument.

           #include <stdio.h>
           ...
           char term[L_ctermid];
           char *ptr;

           ptr = ctermid(term);

APPLICATION USAGE
       The difference between ctermid() and ttyname() is that ttyname() must be handed a file descriptor and return a
       path of the terminal associated with  that  file  descriptor,  while  ctermid()  returns  a  string  (such  as
       "/dev/tty") that refers to the current controlling terminal if used as a pathname.

RATIONALE
       L_ctermid must be defined appropriately for a given implementation and must be greater than zero so that array
       declarations using it are accepted by the compiler. The value includes the terminating null byte.

       Conforming  applications  that  use multiple threads cannot call ctermid() with NULL as the parameter. If s is
       not NULL, the ctermid() function generates a string that, when used as a pathname, refers to the current  con‐
       trolling terminal for the current process. If s is NULL, the return value of ctermid() is undefined.

       There  is  no  additional burden on the programmer—changing to use a hypothetical thread-safe version of cter‐
       mid() along with allocating a buffer is more of a burden than merely allocating  a  buffer.  Application  code
       should  not assume that the returned string is short, as some implementations have more than two pathname com‐
       ponents before reaching a logical device name.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       ttyname()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             CTERMID(3P)
