CTIME(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     CTIME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ctime, ctime_r — convert a time value to a date and time string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <time.h>

       char *ctime(const time_t *clock);
       char *ctime_r(const time_t *clock, char *buf);

DESCRIPTION
       For  ctime():  The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict between the requirements described here  and  the  ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The ctime() function shall convert the time pointed to by clock, representing time in seconds since the Epoch,
       to local time in the form of a string. It shall be equivalent to:

           asctime(localtime(clock))

       The  asctime(), ctime(), gmtime(), and localtime() functions shall return values in one of two static objects:
       a broken-down time structure and an array of char.  Execution of any of the functions may overwrite the infor‐
       mation returned in either of these objects by any of the other functions.

       The ctime() function need not be thread-safe.

       The ctime_r() function shall convert the calendar time pointed to by clock to local time in exactly  the  same
       form as ctime() and put the string into the array pointed to by buf (which shall be at least 26 bytes in size)
       and return buf.

       Unlike  ctime(),  the  ctime_r() function is not required to set tzname.  If ctime_r() does not set tzname, it
       shall not set daylight and shall not set timezone.

RETURN VALUE
       The ctime() function shall return the pointer returned by asctime() with that broken-down time as an argument.

       Upon successful completion, ctime_r() shall return a pointer to the string pointed to by buf.  When  an  error
       is encountered, a null pointer shall be returned.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       These  functions  are included only for compatibility with older implementations. They have undefined behavior
       if the resulting string would be too long, so the use of these functions should be discouraged.  On  implemen‐
       tations  that  do  not  detect output string length overflow, it is possible to overflow the output buffers in
       such a way as to cause applications to fail, or possible system security violations. Also, these functions  do
       not  support  localized  date and time formats. To avoid these problems, applications should use strftime() to
       generate strings from broken-down times.

       Values for the broken-down time structure can be obtained by calling gmtime() or localtime().

       The ctime_r() function is thread-safe and shall return values in a user-supplied buffer  instead  of  possibly
       using a static data area that may be overwritten by each call.

       Attempts  to use ctime() or ctime_r() for times before the Epoch or for times beyond the year 9999 produce un‐
       defined results. Refer to asctime().

RATIONALE
       The standard developers decided to mark the ctime() and ctime_r() functions obsolescent even though  they  are
       in  the  ISO C  standard due to the possibility of buffer overflow. The ISO C standard also provides the strf‐
       time() function which can be used to avoid these problems.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       These functions may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       asctime(), clock(), difftime(), gmtime(), localtime(), mktime(), strftime(), strptime(), time(), utime()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               CTIME(3P)
