CXREF(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     CXREF(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       cxref — generate a C-language program cross-reference table (DEVELOPMENT)

SYNOPSIS
       cxref [−cs] [−o file] [−w num] [−D name[=def]]... [−I dir]...
           [−U name]... file...

DESCRIPTION
       The cxref utility shall analyze a collection of C-language files and attempt to build a cross-reference table.
       Information  from  #define  lines  shall be included in the symbol table. A sorted listing shall be written to
       standard output of all symbols (auto, static, and global) in each file separately, or with the −c  option,  in
       combination. Each symbol shall contain an <asterisk> before the declaring reference.

OPTIONS
       The  cxref  utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines, except that the order of the −D, −I, and −U options (which are identical to  their  interpretation
       by c99) is significant. The following options shall be supported:

       −c        Write a combined cross-reference of all input files.

       −s        Operate silently; do not print input filenames.

       −o file   Direct output to named file.

       −w num    Format  output  no wider than num (decimal) columns. This option defaults to 80 if num is not speci‐
                 fied or is less than 51.

       −D        Equivalent to c99.

       −I        Equivalent to c99.

       −U        Equivalent to c99.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of a C-language source file.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       The input files are C-language source files.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of cxref:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_COLLATE
                 Determine the locale for the ordering of the output.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall be used for the cross-reference listing, unless the −o option is used  to  select  a
       different output file.

       The format of standard output is unspecified, except that the following information shall be included:

        *  If the −c option is not specified, each portion of the listing shall start with the name of the input file
           on a separate line.

        *  The  name  line shall be followed by a sorted list of symbols, each with its associated location pathname,
           the name of the function in which it appears (if it is not a function name itself), and line number refer‐
           ences.

        *  Each line number may be preceded by an <asterisk> ('*') flag, meaning that this is  the  declaring  refer‐
           ence. Other single-character flags, with implementation-defined meanings, may be included.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The output file named by the −o option shall be used instead of standard output.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       c99

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               CXREF(1P)
