DIRFD(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     DIRFD(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       dirfd — extract the file descriptor used by a DIR stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <dirent.h>

       int dirfd(DIR *dirp);

DESCRIPTION
       The dirfd() function shall return a file descriptor referring to the same directory as the dirp argument. This
       file descriptor shall be closed by a call to closedir().  If any attempt is made to close the file descriptor,
       or  to  modify  the  state  of the associated description, other than by means of closedir(), readdir(), read‐
       dir_r(), rewinddir(), or seekdir(), the behavior is undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the dirfd() function shall return an integer which contains a file descriptor  for
       the stream pointed to by dirp.  Otherwise, it shall return −1 and may set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The dirfd() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The dirp argument does not refer to a valid directory stream.

       ENOTSUP
              The implementation does not support the association of a file descriptor with a directory.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The dirfd() function is intended to be a mechanism by which an application may obtain a file descriptor to use
       for the fchdir() function.

RATIONALE
       This interface was introduced because the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not make public the DIR
       data  structure. Applications tend to use the fchdir() function on the file descriptor returned by this inter‐
       face, and this has proven useful for security reasons; in particular, it is a  better  technique  than  others
       where directory names might change.

       The  description  uses the term ``a file descriptor'' rather than ``the file descriptor''. The implication in‐
       tended is that an implementation that does not use an fd for opendir() could still open() the directory to im‐
       plement the dirfd() function. Such a descriptor must be closed later during a call to closedir().

       An implementation that does not support file descriptors referring to directories may fail with [ENOTSUP].

       If it is necessary to allocate an fd to be returned by dirfd(), it should be done at the time  of  a  call  to
       opendir().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       closedir(), fchdir(), fdopendir(), fileno(), open(), readdir()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <dirent.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               DIRFD(3P)
