DLCLOSE(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   DLCLOSE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       dlclose — close a symbol table handle

SYNOPSIS
       #include <dlfcn.h>

       int dlclose(void *handle);

DESCRIPTION
       The  dlclose()  function shall inform the system that the symbol table handle specified by handle is no longer
       needed by the application.

       An application writer may use dlclose() to make a statement of intent on the part of  the  process,  but  this
       statement does not create any requirement upon the implementation. When the symbol table handle is closed, the
       implementation  may unload the executable object files that were loaded by dlopen() when the symbol table han‐
       dle was opened and those that were loaded by dlsym() when using the symbol table handle identified by handle.

       Once a symbol table handle has been closed, an application should assume that any  symbols  (function  identi‐
       fiers and data object identifiers) made visible using handle, are no longer available to the process.

       Although a dlclose() operation is not required to remove any functions or data objects from the address space,
       neither is an implementation prohibited from doing so. The only restriction on such a removal is that no func‐
       tion nor data object shall be removed to which references have been relocated, until or unless all such refer‐
       ences  are  removed.  For  instance,  an executable object file that had been loaded with a dlopen() operation
       specifying the RTLD_GLOBAL flag might provide a target for dynamic relocations performed in the processing  of
       other relocatable objects—in such environments, an application may assume that no relocation, once made, shall
       be undone or remade unless the executable object file containing the relocated object has itself been removed.

RETURN VALUE
       If  the  referenced  symbol table handle was successfully closed, dlclose() shall return 0. If handle does not
       refer to an open symbol table handle or if the symbol table handle could not be closed, dlclose() shall return
       a non-zero value. More detailed diagnostic information shall be available through dlerror().

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       The following example illustrates use of dlopen() and dlclose():

           #include <dlfcn.h>
           int eret;
           void *mylib;
           ...
           /* Open a dynamic library and then close it ... */
           mylib = dlopen("mylib.so", RTLD_LOCAL | RTLD_LAZY);
           ...
           eret = dlclose(mylib);
           ...

APPLICATION USAGE
       A conforming application should employ a symbol table handle returned from a dlopen() invocation only within a
       given scope bracketed by a dlopen() operation and the corresponding dlclose() operation.  Implementations  are
       free  to  use reference counting or other techniques such that multiple calls to dlopen() referencing the same
       executable object file may return a pointer to the same data object as the symbol table handle.

       Implementations are also free to re-use a handle. For these reasons, the value of a handle must be treated  as
       an opaque data type by the application, used only in calls to dlsym() and dlclose().

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       dlerror(), dlopen(), dlsym()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <dlfcn.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             DLCLOSE(3P)
