DLERROR(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   DLERROR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       dlerror — get diagnostic information

SYNOPSIS
       #include <dlfcn.h>

       char *dlerror(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The  dlerror()  function shall return a null-terminated character string (with no trailing <newline>) that de‐
       scribes the last error that occurred during dynamic linking processing. If no dynamic linking errors have  oc‐
       curred since the last invocation of dlerror(), dlerror() shall return NULL.  Thus, invoking dlerror() a second
       time, immediately following a prior invocation, shall result in NULL being returned.

       It  is  implementation-defined whether or not the dlerror() function is thread-safe. A thread-safe implementa‐
       tion shall return only errors that occur on the current thread.

RETURN VALUE
       If successful, dlerror() shall return a null-terminated character string; otherwise, NULL shall be returned.

       The application shall not modify the string returned. The returned pointer might be invalidated or the  string
       content  might  be  overwritten  by a subsequent call to dlerror() in the same thread (if dlerror() is thread-
       safe) or in any thread (if dlerror() is not thread-safe).

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       The following example prints out the last dynamic linking error:

           ...
           #include <dlfcn.h>

           char *errstr;

           errstr = dlerror();
           if (errstr != NULL)
               printf ("A dynamic linking error occurred: (%s)\n", errstr);
           ...

APPLICATION USAGE
       Depending on the application environment with respect to asynchronous execution events,  such  as  signals  or
       other  asynchronous  computation sharing the address space, conforming applications should use a critical sec‐
       tion to retrieve the error pointer and buffer.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       dlclose(), dlopen(), dlsym()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <dlfcn.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             DLERROR(3P)
