DLOPEN(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    DLOPEN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       dlopen — open a symbol table handle

SYNOPSIS
       #include <dlfcn.h>

       void *dlopen(const char *file, int mode);

DESCRIPTION
       The  dlopen()  function  shall make the symbols (function identifiers and data object identifiers) in the exe‐
       cutable object file specified by file available to the calling program.

       The class of executable object files eligible for this operation and the manner of their construction are  im‐
       plementation-defined, though typically such files are shared libraries or programs.

       Implementations  may  permit  the  construction  of  embedded dependencies in executable object files. In such
       cases, a dlopen() operation shall load those dependencies in addition to the executable object file  specified
       by file.  Implementations may also impose specific constraints on the construction of programs that can employ
       dlopen() and its related services.

       A  successful  dlopen() shall return a symbol table handle which the caller may use on subsequent calls to dl‐
       sym() and dlclose().

       The value of this symbol table handle should not be interpreted in any way by the caller.

       The file argument is used to construct a pathname to the executable object file. If file  contains  a  <slash>
       character,  the  file argument is used as the pathname for the file. Otherwise, file is used in an implementa‐
       tion-defined manner to yield a pathname.

       If file is a null pointer, dlopen() shall return a global  symbol  table  handle  for  the  currently  running
       process  image. This symbol table handle shall provide access to the symbols from an ordered set of executable
       object files consisting of the original program image file, any executable  object  files  loaded  at  program
       start-up  as  specified by that process file (for example, shared libraries), and the set of executable object
       files loaded using dlopen() operations with the RTLD_GLOBAL flag. As the latter set of executable object files
       can change during execution, the set of symbols made available by this symbol table handle can also change dy‐
       namically.

       Only a single copy of an executable object file shall be brought into the address space, even if  dlopen()  is
       invoked multiple times in reference to the executable object file, and even if different pathnames are used to
       reference the executable object file.

       The  mode  parameter  describes how dlopen() shall operate upon file with respect to the processing of reloca‐
       tions and the scope of visibility of the symbols provided within file.  When  an  executable  object  file  is
       brought  into  the  address  space  of a process, it may contain references to symbols whose addresses are not
       known until the executable object file is loaded.

       These references shall be relocated before the symbols can be accessed. The mode parameter governs when  these
       relocations take place and may have the following values:

       RTLD_LAZY   Relocations  shall  be  performed  at an implementation-defined time, ranging from the time of the
                   dlopen() call until the first reference to a given symbol occurs. Specifying RTLD_LAZY should  im‐
                   prove  performance  on implementations supporting dynamic symbol binding since a process might not
                   reference all of the symbols in an executable object file. And,  for  systems  supporting  dynamic
                   symbol  resolution  for  normal  process  execution,  this  behavior mimics the normal handling of
                   process execution.

       RTLD_NOW    All necessary relocations shall be performed when the executable object file is first loaded. This
                   may waste some processing if relocations are performed for symbols that are never referenced. This
                   behavior may be useful for applications that need to know that all symbols referenced during  exe‐
                   cution will be available before dlopen() returns.

       Any  executable  object file loaded by dlopen() that requires relocations against global symbols can reference
       the symbols in the original process image file, any executable object files loaded at program  start-up,  from
       the  initial process image itself, from any other executable object file included in the same dlopen() invoca‐
       tion, and any executable object files that were loaded in any dlopen()  invocation  and  which  specified  the
       RTLD_GLOBAL  flag. To determine the scope of visibility for the symbols loaded with a dlopen() invocation, the
       mode parameter should be a bitwise-inclusive OR with one of the following values:

       RTLD_GLOBAL The executable object file's symbols shall be made available  for  relocation  processing  of  any
                   other executable object file. In addition, symbol lookup using dlopen(NULL,mode) and an associated
                   dlsym() allows executable object files loaded with this mode to be searched.

       RTLD_LOCAL  The  executable object file's symbols shall not be made available for relocation processing of any
                   other executable object file.

       If neither RTLD_GLOBAL nor RTLD_LOCAL is specified, the default behavior is unspecified.

       If an executable object file is specified in multiple dlopen() invocations, mode is interpreted at each  invo‐
       cation.

       If  RTLD_NOW  has  been specified, all relocations shall have been completed rendering further RTLD_NOW opera‐
       tions redundant and any further RTLD_LAZY operations irrelevant.

       If RTLD_GLOBAL has been specified, the executable object file shall maintain the RTLD_GLOBAL status regardless
       of any previous or future specification of RTLD_LOCAL, as long as the executable object file  remains  in  the
       address space (see dlclose()).

       Symbols introduced into the process image through calls to dlopen() may be used in relocation activities. Sym‐
       bols  so  introduced  may duplicate symbols already defined by the program or previous dlopen() operations. To
       resolve the ambiguities such a situation might present, the resolution of a symbol reference to symbol defini‐
       tion is based on a symbol resolution order. Two such resolution orders are defined: load order and  dependency
       order. Load order establishes an ordering among symbol definitions, such that the first definition loaded (in‐
       cluding  definitions from the process image file and any dependent executable object files loaded with it) has
       priority over executable object files added later (by dlopen()).  Load ordering is used in relocation process‐
       ing. Dependency ordering uses a breadth-first order starting with a given executable object file, then all  of
       its  dependencies,  then any dependents of those, iterating until all dependencies are satisfied. With the ex‐
       ception of the global symbol table handle obtained via a dlopen() operation with a null pointer  as  the  file
       argument,  dependency  ordering  is  used by the dlsym() function. Load ordering is used in dlsym() operations
       upon the global symbol table handle.

       When an executable object file is first made accessible via dlopen(), it and its dependent  executable  object
       files are added in dependency order. Once all the executable object files are added, relocations are performed
       using  load  order. Note that if an executable object file or its dependencies had been previously loaded, the
       load and dependency orders may yield different resolutions.

       The symbols introduced by dlopen() operations and available through dlsym() are at a minimum those  which  are
       exported  as  identifiers  of global scope by the executable object file. Typically, such identifiers shall be
       those that were specified in (for example) C source code as having extern linkage. The precise manner in which
       an implementation constructs the set of exported symbols for an executable object file  is  implementation-de‐
       fined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  dlopen() shall return a symbol table handle. If file cannot be found, cannot be
       opened for reading, is not of an appropriate executable object file format for processing by dlopen(),  or  if
       an  error  occurs during the process of loading file or relocating its symbolic references, dlopen() shall re‐
       turn a null pointer. More detailed diagnostic information shall be available through dlerror().

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       Refer to dlsym().

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       dlclose(), dlerror(), dlsym()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <dlfcn.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              DLOPEN(3P)
