DU(1P)                                        POSIX Programmer's Manual                                        DU(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       du — estimate file space usage

SYNOPSIS
       du [−a|−s] [−kx] [−H|−L] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       By  default,  the  du  utility shall write to standard output the size of the file space allocated to, and the
       size of the file space allocated to each subdirectory of, the file hierarchy rooted in each of  the  specified
       files.  By default, when a symbolic link is encountered on the command line or in the file hierarchy, du shall
       count the size of the symbolic link (rather than the file referenced by the link), and shall  not  follow  the
       link  to  another portion of the file hierarchy. The size of the file space allocated to a file of type direc‐
       tory shall be defined as the sum total of space allocated to all files in the file hierarchy rooted in the di‐
       rectory plus the space allocated to the directory itself.

       When du cannot stat() files or stat() or read directories, it shall report an error condition  and  the  final
       exit status is affected. Files with multiple links shall be counted and written for only one entry. The direc‐
       tory  entry that is selected in the report is unspecified. By default, file sizes shall be written in 512-byte
       units, rounded up to the next 512-byte unit.

OPTIONS
       The du utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of  POSIX.1‐2008,  Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −a        In  addition  to  the default output, report the size of each file not of type directory in the file
                 hierarchy rooted in the specified file.  Regardless of the presence of the −a  option,  non-directo‐
                 ries given as file operands shall always be listed.

       −H        If a symbolic link is specified on the command line, du shall count the size of the file or file hi‐
                 erarchy referenced by the link.

       −k        Write the files sizes in units of 1024 bytes, rather than the default 512-byte units.

       −L        If  a  symbolic  link is specified on the command line or encountered during the traversal of a file
                 hierarchy, du shall count the size of the file or file hierarchy referenced by the link.

       −s        Instead of the default output, report only the total sum for each of the specified files.

       −x        When evaluating file sizes, evaluate only those files that have the same device as the  file  speci‐
                 fied by the file operand.

       Specifying  more  than  one  of the mutually-exclusive options −H and −L shall not be considered an error. The
       last option specified shall determine the behavior of the utility.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      The pathname of a file whose size is to be written. If no file is specified, the  current  directory
                 shall be used.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of du:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The  output  from du shall consist of the amount of space allocated to a file and the name of the file, in the
       following format:

           "%d %s\n", <size>, <pathname>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The use of 512-byte units is historical practice and maintains compatibility with ls and  other  utilities  in
       this  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008. This does not mandate that the file system itself be based on 512-byte blocks.
       The −k option was added as a compromise measure. It was agreed by the standard developers that 512  bytes  was
       the  best  default  unit  because  of  its  complete  historical  consistency  on  System  V (versus the mixed
       512/1024-byte usage on BSD systems), and that a −k option to switch to 1024-byte units was a good  compromise.
       Users  who  prefer  the  1024-byte  quantity can easily alias du to du −k without breaking the many historical
       scripts relying on the 512-byte units.

       The −b option was added to an early proposal to provide a resolution to the situation where System V  and  BSD
       systems  give  figures for file sizes in blocks, which is an implementation-defined concept. (In common usage,
       the block size is 512 bytes for System V and 1024 bytes for BSD systems.)   However,  −b  was  later  deleted,
       since the default was eventually decided as 512-byte units.

       Historical file systems provided no way to obtain exact figures for the space allocation given to files. There
       are  two  known  areas  of inaccuracies in historical file systems: cases of indirect blocks being used by the
       file system or sparse files yielding incorrectly high values. An indirect block is space used by the file sys‐
       tem in the storage of the file, but that need not be counted in the space allocated to the file. A sparse file
       is one in which an lseek() call has been made to a position beyond the end of the file  and  data  has  subse‐
       quently  been written at that point. A file system need not allocate all the intervening zero-filled blocks to
       such a file. It is up to the implementation to define exactly how accurate its methods are.

       The −a and −s options were mutually-exclusive in the original version of du.  The POSIX  Shell  and  Utilities
       description  is  implied by the language in the SVID where −s is described as causing ``only the grand total''
       to be reported. Some systems may produce output for −sa, but a Strictly Conforming POSIX Shell  and  Utilities
       Application cannot use that combination.

       The −a and −s options were adopted from the SVID except that the System V behavior of not listing non-directo‐
       ries  explicitly given as operands, unless the −a option is specified, was considered a bug; the BSD-based be‐
       havior (report for all operands) is mandated. The default behavior of du in the SVID with regard to  reporting
       the  failure  to read files (it produces no messages) was considered counter-intuitive, and thus it was speci‐
       fied that the POSIX Shell and Utilities default behavior shall be to produce such messages. These messages can
       be turned off with shell redirection to achieve the System V behavior.

       The −x option is historical practice on recent BSD systems. It has been adopted by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008
       because there was no other historical method of limiting the du search to a single file hierarchy. This  limi‐
       tation of the search is necessary to make it possible to obtain file space usage information about a file sys‐
       tem on which other file systems are mounted, without having to resort to a lengthy find and awk script.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       ls

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, fstatat()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                  DU(1P)
