DUP(3P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       DUP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       dup, dup2 — duplicate an open file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int dup(int fildes);
       int dup2(int fildes, int fildes2);

DESCRIPTION
       The dup() function provides an alternative interface to the service provided by fcntl() using the F_DUPFD com‐
       mand. The call dup(fildes) shall be equivalent to:

           fcntl(fildes, F_DUPFD, 0);

       The  dup2() function shall cause the file descriptor fildes2 to refer to the same open file description as the
       file descriptor fildes and to share any locks, and shall return fildes2.  If fildes2 is already a  valid  open
       file descriptor, it shall be closed first, unless fildes is equal to fildes2 in which case dup2() shall return
       fildes2  without  closing  it.  If  the close operation fails to close fildes2, dup2() shall return −1 without
       changing the open file description to which fildes2 refers. If fildes is not a valid file  descriptor,  dup2()
       shall  return  −1  and  shall  not  close  fildes2.   If  fildes2  is  less than 0 or greater than or equal to
       {OPEN_MAX}, dup2() shall return −1 with errno set to [EBADF].

       Upon successful completion, if fildes is not equal to fildes2, the FD_CLOEXEC  flag  associated  with  fildes2
       shall  be  cleared.  If  fildes  is equal to fildes2, the FD_CLOEXEC flag associated with fildes2 shall not be
       changed.

       If fildes refers to a typed memory object, the result of the dup2() function is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion a non-negative integer, namely the file descriptor, shall be  returned;  otherwise,
       −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The dup() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid open file descriptor.

       EMFILE All file descriptors available to the process are currently open.

       The dup2() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The  fildes argument is not a valid open file descriptor or the argument fildes2 is negative or greater
              than or equal to {OPEN_MAX}.

       EINTR  The dup2() function was interrupted by a signal.

       The dup2() function may fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while attempting to close fildes2.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Redirecting Standard Output to a File S
       The following example closes standard output for the current processes, re-assigns standard output  to  go  to
       the file referenced by pfd, and closes the original file descriptor to clean up.

           #include <unistd.h>
           ...
           int pfd;
           ...
           close(1);
           dup(pfd);
           close(pfd);
           ...

   Redirecting Error Messages
       The following example redirects messages from stderr to stdout.

           #include <unistd.h>
           ...
           dup2(1, 2);
           ...

APPLICATION USAGE
       Implementations  may use file descriptors that must be inherited into child processes for the child process to
       remain conforming, such as for message catalog or tracing  purposes.  Therefore,  an  application  that  calls
       dup2()  with  an  arbitrary integer for fildes2 risks non-conforming behavior, and dup2() can only portably be
       used to overwrite file descriptor values that the application has obtained through explicit  actions,  or  for
       the  three  file descriptors corresponding to the standard file streams. In order to avoid a race condition of
       leaking an unintended file descriptor into a child process, an application should consider  opening  all  file
       descriptors with the FD_CLOEXEC bit set unless the file descriptor is intended to be inherited across exec.

RATIONALE
       The  dup() function is redundant. Its services are also provided by the fcntl() function. It has been included
       in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 primarily for historical reasons, since many existing applications use  it.  On
       the  other hand, the dup2() function provides unique services, as no other interface is able to atomically re‐
       place an existing file descriptor.

       The dup2() function is not marked obsolescent because it presents a type-safe version  of  functionality  pro‐
       vided in a type-unsafe version by fcntl().  It is used in the POSIX Ada binding.

       The dup2() function is not intended for use in critical regions as a synchronization mechanism.

       In  the  description  of [EBADF], the case of fildes being out of range is covered by the given case of fildes
       not being valid. The descriptions for fildes and fildes2 are different because the  only  kind  of  invalidity
       that is relevant for fildes2 is whether it is out of range; that is, it does not matter whether fildes2 refers
       to an open file when the dup2() call is made.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       close(), fcntl(), open()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 DUP(3P)
