ENCRYPT(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   ENCRYPT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       encrypt — encoding function (CRYPT)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       void encrypt(char block[64], int edflag);

DESCRIPTION
       The encrypt() function shall provide access to an implementation-defined encoding algorithm. The key generated
       by setkey() is used to encrypt the string block with encrypt().

       The  block argument to encrypt() shall be an array of length 64 bytes containing only the bytes with values of
       0 and 1. The array is modified in place to a similar array using the key set by setkey().  If edflag is 0, the
       argument is encoded. If edflag is 1, the argument may be decoded (see the APPLICATION USAGE section);  if  the
       argument is not decoded, errno shall be set to [ENOSYS].

       The  encrypt()  function  shall not change the setting of errno if successful. An application wishing to check
       for error situations should set errno to 0 before calling encrypt().  If errno is non-zero on return, an error
       has occurred.

       The encrypt() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       The encrypt() function shall not return a value.

ERRORS
       The encrypt() function shall fail if:

       ENOSYS The functionality is not supported on this implementation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Historical implementations of the encrypt() function used a rather primitive encoding algorithm.

       In some environments, decoding might not be implemented. This is related to some  Government  restrictions  on
       encryption and decryption routines. Historical practice has been to ship a different version of the encryption
       library  without  the decryption feature in the routines supplied. Thus the exported version of encrypt() does
       encoding but not decoding.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       crypt(), setkey()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             ENCRYPT(3P)
