ENDGRENT(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  ENDGRENT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       endgrent, getgrent, setgrent — group database entry functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <grp.h>

       void endgrent(void);
       struct group *getgrent(void);
       void setgrent(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The  getgrent() function shall return a pointer to a structure containing the broken-out fields of an entry in
       the group database. When first called, getgrent() shall return a pointer to a group structure  containing  the
       first  entry  in the group database. Thereafter, it shall return a pointer to a group structure containing the
       next group structure in the group database, so successive calls may be used to search the entire database.

       An implementation that provides extended security controls may impose further implementation-defined  restric‐
       tions  on accessing the group database. In particular, the system may deny the existence of some or all of the
       group database entries associated with groups other than those groups associated with the caller and may  omit
       users other than the caller from the list of members of groups in database entries that are returned.

       The setgrent() function shall rewind the group database to allow repeated searches.

       The endgrent() function may be called to close the group database when processing is complete.

       These functions need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       When  first called, getgrent() shall return a pointer to the first group structure in the group database. Upon
       subsequent calls it shall return the next group structure in the group database. The getgrent() function shall
       return a null pointer on end-of-file or an error and errno may be set to indicate the error.

       The application shall not modify the structure to which the return value points, nor any storage areas pointed
       to by pointers within the structure. The returned pointer, and pointers within the structure, might be invali‐
       dated or the structure or the storage areas might be overwritten by a subsequent call  to  getgrgid(),  getgr‐
       nam(), or getgrent().

ERRORS
       The getgrent() function may fail if:

       EINTR  A signal was caught during the operation.

       EIO    An I/O error has occurred.

       EMFILE All file descriptors available to the process are currently open.

       ENFILE The maximum allowable number of files is currently open in the system.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       These  functions are provided due to their historical usage.  Applications should avoid dependencies on fields
       in the group database, whether the database is a single file, or where in the file system name space the data‐
       base resides. Applications should use getgrnam() and getgrgid() whenever possible because it avoids these  de‐
       pendencies.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       endpwent(), getgrgid(), getgrnam(), getlogin()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <grp.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            ENDGRENT(3P)
