ENDHOSTENT(3P)                                POSIX Programmer's Manual                                ENDHOSTENT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       endhostent, gethostent, sethostent — network host database functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <netdb.h>

       void endhostent(void);
       struct hostent *gethostent(void);
       void sethostent(int stayopen);

DESCRIPTION
       These functions shall retrieve information about hosts. This information is considered to be stored in a data‐
       base that can be accessed sequentially or randomly. The implementation of this database is unspecified.

       Note:     In  many  cases  this  database is implemented by the Domain Name System, as documented in RFC 1034,
                 RFC 1035, and RFC 1886.

       The sethostent() function shall open a connection to the database and set the next entry for retrieval to  the
       first  entry  in  the  database. If the stayopen argument is non-zero, the connection shall not be closed by a
       call to gethostent(), and the implementation may maintain an open file descriptor.

       The gethostent() function shall read the next entry in the database, opening and closing a connection  to  the
       database as necessary.

       Entries shall be returned in hostent structures.

       The endhostent() function shall close the connection to the database, releasing any open file descriptor.

       These functions need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the gethostent() function shall return a pointer to a hostent structure if the re‐
       quested  entry was found, and a null pointer if the end of the database was reached or the requested entry was
       not found.

       The application shall not modify the structure to which the return value points, nor any storage areas pointed
       to by pointers within the structure. The returned pointer, and pointers within the structure, might be invali‐
       dated or the structure or the storage areas might be overwritten by a subsequent call to gethostent().

ERRORS
       No errors are defined for endhostent(), gethostent(), and sethostent().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       endservent()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <netdb.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                          ENDHOSTENT(3P)
