ENDNETENT(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 ENDNETENT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       endnetent, getnetbyaddr, getnetbyname, getnetent, setnetent — network database functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <netdb.h>

       void endnetent(void);
       struct netent *getnetbyaddr(uint32_t net, int type);
       struct netent *getnetbyname(const char *name);
       struct netent *getnetent(void);
       void setnetent(int stayopen);

DESCRIPTION
       These  functions  shall  retrieve information about networks. This information is considered to be stored in a
       database that can be accessed sequentially or randomly. The implementation of this database is unspecified.

       The setnetent() function shall open and rewind the database. If the stayopen argument is non-zero, the connec‐
       tion to the net database shall not be closed after each call to getnetent() (either  directly,  or  indirectly
       through  one of the other getnet*() functions), and the implementation may maintain an open file descriptor to
       the database.

       The getnetent() function shall read the next entry of the database, opening and closing a  connection  to  the
       database as necessary.

       The  getnetbyaddr()  function shall search the database from the beginning, and find the first entry for which
       the address family specified by type matches the n_addrtype member and the  network  number  net  matches  the
       n_net  member,  opening  and closing a connection to the database as necessary.  The net argument shall be the
       network number in host byte order.

       The getnetbyname() function shall search the database from the beginning and find the first  entry  for  which
       the network name specified by name matches the n_name member, opening and closing a connection to the database
       as necessary.

       The  getnetbyaddr(),  getnetbyname(), and getnetent() functions shall each return a pointer to a netent struc‐
       ture, the members of which shall contain the fields of an entry in the network database.

       The endnetent() function shall close the database, releasing any open file descriptor.

       These functions need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, getnetbyaddr(), getnetbyname(), and getnetent() shall return a pointer to a netent
       structure if the requested entry was found, and a null pointer if the end of the database was reached  or  the
       requested entry was not found.  Otherwise, a null pointer shall be returned.

       The application shall not modify the structure to which the return value points, nor any storage areas pointed
       to by pointers within the structure. The returned pointer, and pointers within the structure, might be invali‐
       dated  or the structure or the storage areas might be overwritten by a subsequent call to getnetbyaddr(), get‐
       netbyname(), or getnetent().

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <netdb.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           ENDNETENT(3P)
