ENDPROTOENT(3P)                               POSIX Programmer's Manual                               ENDPROTOENT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       endprotoent, getprotobyname, getprotobynumber, getprotoent, setprotoent — network protocol database functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <netdb.h>

       void endprotoent(void);
       struct protoent *getprotobyname(const char *name);
       struct protoent *getprotobynumber(int proto);
       struct protoent *getprotoent(void);
       void setprotoent(int stayopen);

DESCRIPTION
       These  functions  shall retrieve information about protocols. This information is considered to be stored in a
       database that can be accessed sequentially or randomly. The implementation of this database is unspecified.

       The setprotoent() function shall open a connection to the database, and set the next entry to the first entry.
       If the stayopen argument is non-zero, the connection to the network protocol database shall not be closed  af‐
       ter  each  call  to  getprotoent()  (either directly, or indirectly through one of the other getproto*() func‐
       tions), and the implementation may maintain an open file descriptor for the database.

       The getprotobyname() function shall search the database from the beginning and find the first entry for  which
       the  protocol  name specified by name matches the p_name member, opening and closing a connection to the data‐
       base as necessary.

       The getprotobynumber() function shall search the database from the beginning and  find  the  first  entry  for
       which  the  protocol number specified by proto matches the p_proto member, opening and closing a connection to
       the database as necessary.

       The getprotoent() function shall read the next entry of the database, opening and closing a connection to  the
       database as necessary.

       The  getprotobyname(),  getprotobynumber(),  and getprotoent() functions shall each return a pointer to a pro‐
       toent structure, the members of which shall contain the fields of an entry in the network protocol database.

       The endprotoent() function shall close the connection to the database, releasing any open file descriptor.

       These functions need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, getprotobyname(), getprotobynumber(), and getprotoent() return a pointer to a pro‐
       toent structure if the requested entry was found, and a null pointer if the end of the database was reached or
       the requested entry was not found.  Otherwise, a null pointer is returned.

       The application shall not modify the structure to which the return value points, nor any storage areas pointed
       to by pointers within the structure. The returned pointer, and pointers within the structure, might be invali‐
       dated or the structure or the storage areas might be overwritten by a  subsequent  call  to  getprotobyname(),
       getprotobynumber(), or getprotoent().

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <netdb.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                         ENDPROTOENT(3P)
