ENDPWENT(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  ENDPWENT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       endpwent, getpwent, setpwent — user database functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <pwd.h>

       void endpwent(void);
       struct passwd *getpwent(void);
       void setpwent(void);

DESCRIPTION
       These functions shall retrieve information about users.

       The  getpwent() function shall return a pointer to a structure containing the broken-out fields of an entry in
       the user database. Each entry in the user database contains a passwd structure. When first called,  getpwent()
       shall  return  a pointer to a passwd structure containing the first entry in the user database. Thereafter, it
       shall return a pointer to a passwd structure containing the next entry in the user database. Successive  calls
       can be used to search the entire user database.

       If an end-of-file or an error is encountered on reading, getpwent() shall return a null pointer.

       An  implementation that provides extended security controls may impose further implementation-defined restric‐
       tions on accessing the user database. In particular, the system may deny the existence of some or all  of  the
       user database entries associated with users other than the caller.

       The setpwent() function effectively rewinds the user database to allow repeated searches.

       The endpwent() function may be called to close the user database when processing is complete.

       These functions need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       The getpwent() function shall return a null pointer on end-of-file or error.

       The application shall not modify the structure to which the return value points, nor any storage areas pointed
       to by pointers within the structure. The returned pointer, and pointers within the structure, might be invali‐
       dated  or  the  structure or the storage areas might be overwritten by a subsequent call to getpwuid(), getpw‐
       nam(), or getpwent().

ERRORS
       These functions may fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error has occurred.

       In addition, getpwent() and setpwent() may fail if:

       EMFILE All file descriptors available to the process are currently open.

       ENFILE The maximum allowable number of files is currently open in the system.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Searching the User Database
       The following example uses the getpwent() function to get successive entries in the user database, returning a
       pointer to a passwd structure that contains information about each user. The call  to  endpwent()  closes  the
       user database and cleans up.

           #include <pwd.h>
           #include <stdio.h>

           void printname(uid_t uid)
           {
               struct passwd *pwd;

               setpwent();
               while((pwd = getpwent()) != NULL) {
                   if (pwd->pw_uid == uid) {
                       printf("name=%s\n",pwd->pw_name);
                       break;
                   }
               }
               endpwent();
           }

APPLICATION USAGE
       These  functions are provided due to their historical usage.  Applications should avoid dependencies on fields
       in the password database, whether the database is a single file, or where in the file system  name  space  the
       database resides. Applications should use getpwuid() whenever possible because it avoids these dependencies.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       endgrent(), getlogin(), getpwnam(), getpwuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <pwd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            ENDPWENT(3P)
