ENDSERVENT(3P)                                POSIX Programmer's Manual                                ENDSERVENT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       endservent, getservbyname, getservbyport, getservent, setservent — network services database functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <netdb.h>

       void endservent(void);
       struct servent *getservbyname(const char *name, const char *proto);
       struct servent *getservbyport(int port, const char *proto);
       struct servent *getservent(void);
       void setservent(int stayopen);

DESCRIPTION
       These functions shall retrieve information about network services. This information is considered to be stored
       in  a  database that can be accessed sequentially or randomly. The implementation of this database is unspeci‐
       fied.

       The setservent() function shall open a connection to the database, and set the next entry to the first  entry.
       If the stayopen argument is non-zero, the net database shall not be closed after each call to the getservent()
       function  (either  directly, or indirectly through one of the other getserv*() functions), and the implementa‐
       tion may maintain an open file descriptor for the database.

       The getservent() function shall read the next entry of the database, opening and closing a connection  to  the
       database as necessary.

       The  getservbyname()  function shall search the database from the beginning and find the first entry for which
       the service name specified by name matches the s_name member and the protocol name specified by proto  matches
       the  s_proto  member,  opening  and  closing  a  connection  to the database as necessary.  If proto is a null
       pointer, any value of the s_proto member shall be matched.

       The getservbyport() function shall search the database from the beginning and find the first entry  for  which
       the  port  specified  by  port  matches the s_port member and the protocol name specified by proto matches the
       s_proto member, opening and closing a connection to the database as necessary.  If proto is  a  null  pointer,
       any  value of the s_proto member shall be matched. The port argument shall be a value obtained by converting a
       uint16_t in network byte order to int.

       The getservbyname(), getservbyport(), and getservent() functions shall each return  a  pointer  to  a  servent
       structure, the members of which shall contain the fields of an entry in the network services database.

       The endservent() function shall close the database, releasing any open file descriptor.

       These functions need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion, getservbyname(), getservbyport(), and getservent() return a pointer to a servent
       structure if the requested entry was found, and a null pointer if the end of the database was reached  or  the
       requested entry was not found.  Otherwise, a null pointer is returned.

       The application shall not modify the structure to which the return value points, nor any storage areas pointed
       to by pointers within the structure. The returned pointer, and pointers within the structure, might be invali‐
       dated or the structure or the storage areas might be overwritten by a subsequent call to getservbyname(), get‐
       servbyport(), or getservent().

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The port argument of getservbyport() need not be compatible with the port values of all address families.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       endhostent(), endprotoent(), htonl(), inet_addr()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <netdb.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                          ENDSERVENT(3P)
