ENV(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       ENV(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       env — set the environment for command invocation

SYNOPSIS
       env [−i] [name=value]... [utility [argument...]]

DESCRIPTION
       The  env  utility  shall obtain the current environment, modify it according to its arguments, then invoke the
       utility named by the utility operand with the modified environment.

       Optional arguments shall be passed to utility.

       If no utility operand is specified, the resulting environment shall be written to the  standard  output,  with
       one name=value pair per line.

       If the first argument is '−', the results are unspecified.

OPTIONS
       The  env  utility  shall  conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines, except for the unspecified usage of '−'.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −i        Invoke utility with exactly the environment specified by the arguments;  the  inherited  environment
                 shall be ignored completely.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       name=value
                 Arguments  of  the  form name=value shall modify the execution environment, and shall be placed into
                 the inherited environment before the utility is invoked.

       utility   The name of the utility to be invoked. If the utility operand names  any  of  the  special  built-in
                 utilities in Section 2.14, Special Built-In Utilities, the results are undefined.

       argument  A string to pass as an argument for the invoked utility.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of env:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       PATH      Determine  the location of the utility, as described in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008,
                 Chapter 8, Environment Variables.  If PATH is specified as a name=value operand to  env,  the  value
                 given shall be used in the search for utility.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       If  no utility operand is specified, each name=value pair in the resulting environment shall be written in the
       form:

           "%s=%s\n", <name>, <value>

       If the utility operand is specified, the env utility shall not write to standard output.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       If utility is invoked, the exit status of env shall be the exit status of utility; otherwise, the env  utility
       shall exit with one of the following values:

           0   The env utility completed successfully.

       1−125   An error occurred in the env utility.

         126   The utility specified by utility was found but could not be invoked.

         127   The utility specified by utility could not be found.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  command, env, nice, nohup, time, and xargs utilities have been specified to use exit code 127 if an error
       occurs so that applications can distinguish ``failure to find a utility'' from ``invoked utility  exited  with
       an error indication''. The value 127 was chosen because it is not commonly used for other meanings; most util‐
       ities  use small values for ``normal error conditions'' and the values above 128 can be confused with termina‐
       tion due to receipt of a signal. The value 126 was chosen in a similar manner to  indicate  that  the  utility
       could  be  found,  but not invoked. Some scripts produce meaningful error messages differentiating the 126 and
       127 cases. The distinction between exit codes 126 and 127 is based on KornShell practice that  uses  127  when
       all  attempts  to exec the utility fail with [ENOENT], and uses 126 when any attempt to exec the utility fails
       for any other reason.

       Historical implementations of the env utility use the execvp() or execlp() functions defined in the System In‐
       terfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008 to invoke the specified utility; this provides better  performance  and  keeps
       users  from having to escape characters with special meaning to the shell. Therefore, shell functions, special
       built-ins, and built-ins that are only provided by the shell are not found.

EXAMPLES
       The following command:

           env −i PATH=/mybin:"$PATH" $(getconf V7_ENV) mygrep xyz myfile

       invokes the command mygrep with a new PATH value as the only entry in its environment other than any variables
       required by the implementation for conformance. In this case, PATH is used to locate mygrep, which is expected
       to reside in /mybin.

RATIONALE
       As with all other utilities that invoke other utilities, this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 only specifies  what  env
       does with standard input, standard output, standard error, input files, and output files. If a utility is exe‐
       cuted, it is not constrained by the specification of input and output by env.

       The  −i  option  was  added to allow the functionality of the removed − option in a manner compatible with the
       Utility Syntax Guidelines. It is possible to create a non-conforming environment using the −i  option,  as  it
       may  remove  environment variables required by the implementation for conformance. The following will preserve
       these environment variables as well as preserve the PATH for conforming utilities:

           IFS='
           '
           # The preceding value should be <space><tab><newline>.
           # Set IFS to its default value.

           set −f
           # disable pathname expansion

           \unalias −a
           # Unset all possible aliases.
           # Note that unalias is escaped to prevent an alias
           # being used for unalias.
           # This step is not strictly necessary, since aliases are not inherited,
           # and the ENV environment variable is only used by interactive shells,
           # the only way any aliases can exist in a script is if it defines them
           # itself.

           unset −f env getconf
           # Ensure env and getconf are not user functions.

           env −i $(getconf V7_ENV) PATH="$(getconf PATH)" command

       Some have suggested that env is redundant since the same effect is achieved by:

           name=value ... utility [ argument ... ]

       The example is equivalent to env when an environment variable is being added to the environment  of  the  com‐
       mand,  but not when the environment is being set to the given value.  The env utility also writes out the cur‐
       rent environment if invoked without arguments. There is sufficient functionality beyond what the example  pro‐
       vides to justify inclusion of env.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.14, Special Built-In Utilities, Section 2.5, Parameters and Variables

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 ENV(1P)
