ERRNO(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     ERRNO(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       errno — error return value

SYNOPSIS
       #include <errno.h>

DESCRIPTION
       The lvalue errno is used by many functions to return error values.

       Many functions provide an error number in errno, which has type int and is defined in <errno.h>.  The value of
       errno  shall  be defined only after a call to a function for which it is explicitly stated to be set and until
       it is changed by the next function call or if the application assigns it a value. The value  of  errno  should
       only  be examined when it is indicated to be valid by a function's return value. Applications shall obtain the
       definition of errno by the inclusion of <errno.h>.  No function in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 shall set errno
       to 0. The setting of errno after a successful call to a function is unspecified unless the description of that
       function specifies that errno shall not be modified.

       It is unspecified whether errno is a macro or an identifier declared with external linkage. If a macro defini‐
       tion is suppressed in order to access an actual object, or a program defines an identifier with the  name  er‐
       rno, the behavior is undefined.

       The symbolic values stored in errno are documented in the ERRORS sections on all relevant pages.

RETURN VALUE
       None.

ERRORS
       None.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Previously both POSIX and X/Open documents were more restrictive than the ISO C standard in that they required
       errno to be defined as an external variable, whereas the ISO C standard required only that errno be defined as
       a modifiable lvalue with type int.

       An  application  that  needs  to examine the value of errno to determine the error should set it to 0 before a
       function call, then inspect it before a subsequent function call.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.3, Error Numbers

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <errno.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               ERRNO(3P)
