EXEC(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      EXEC(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       exec — execute commands and open, close, or copy file descriptors

SYNOPSIS
       exec [command [argument...]]

DESCRIPTION
       The  exec  utility shall open, close, and/or copy file descriptors as specified by any redirections as part of
       the command.

       If exec is specified without command or arguments, and any file descriptors with numbers greater  than  2  are
       opened  with  associated  redirection statements, it is unspecified whether those file descriptors remain open
       when the shell invokes another utility.  Scripts concerned that child shells could misuse open  file  descrip‐
       tors can always close them explicitly, as shown in one of the following examples.

       If  exec is specified with command, it shall replace the shell with command without creating a new process. If
       arguments are specified, they shall be arguments to command.  Redirection affects the current shell  execution
       environment.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       See the DESCRIPTION.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       None.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       If  command  is specified, exec shall not return to the shell; rather, the exit status of the process shall be
       the exit status of the program implementing command, which overlaid the shell. If command is  not  found,  the
       exit  status  shall be 127. If command is found, but it is not an executable utility, the exit status shall be
       126. If a redirection error occurs (see Section 2.8.1, Consequences of Shell Errors),  the  shell  shall  exit
       with a value in the range 1−125. Otherwise, exec shall return a zero exit status.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       Open readfile as file descriptor 3 for reading:

           exec 3< readfile

       Open writefile as file descriptor 4 for writing:

           exec 4> writefile

       Make file descriptor 5 a copy of file descriptor 0:

           exec 5<&0

       Close file descriptor 3:

           exec 3<&−

       Cat the file maggie by replacing the current shell with the cat utility:

           exec cat maggie

RATIONALE
       Most historical implementations were not conformant in that:

           foo=bar exec cmd

       did not pass foo to cmd.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.14, Special Built-In Utilities

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                EXEC(1P)
