EXIT(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      EXIT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       exit — terminate a process

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void exit(int status);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The value of status may be 0, EXIT_SUCCESS, EXIT_FAILURE, or any other value, though only the  least  signifi‐
       cant 8 bits (that is, status & 0377) shall be available to a waiting parent process.

       The  exit() function shall first call all functions registered by atexit(), in the reverse order of their reg‐
       istration, except that a function is called after any previously registered functions that  had  already  been
       called  at  the time it was registered. Each function is called as many times as it was registered. If, during
       the call to any such function, a call to the longjmp() function is made that would terminate the call  to  the
       registered function, the behavior is undefined.

       If  a  function registered by a call to atexit() fails to return, the remaining registered functions shall not
       be called and the rest of the exit() processing shall not be completed. If exit() is called  more  than  once,
       the behavior is undefined.

       The exit() function shall then flush all open streams with unwritten buffered data and close all open streams.
       Finally,  the  process  shall be terminated with the same consequences as described in Consequences of Process
       Termination.

RETURN VALUE
       The exit() function does not return.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       See _Exit().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       _Exit(), atexit(), exec, longjmp(), tmpfile()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                EXIT(3P)
