EXPAND(1P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    EXPAND(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       expand — convert tabs to spaces

SYNOPSIS
       expand [−t tablist] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  expand  utility  shall write files or the standard input to the standard output with <tab> characters re‐
       placed with one or more <space> characters needed to pad to the next  tab  stop.  Any  <backspace>  characters
       shall be copied to the output and cause the column position count for tab stop calculations to be decremented;
       the column position count shall not be decremented below zero.

OPTIONS
       The  expand utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −t tablist
                 Specify the tab stops. The application shall ensure that the argument tablist consists of  either  a
                 single  positive  decimal  integer or a list of tabstops. If a single number is given, tabs shall be
                 set that number of column positions apart instead of the default 8.

                 If a list of tabstops is given, the application shall ensure that it consists of a list  of  two  or
                 more  positive decimal integers, separated by <blank> or <comma> characters, in ascending order. The
                 <tab> characters shall be set at those specific column positions. Each tab stop N shall be an  inte‐
                 ger  value  greater  than  zero,  and the list is in strictly ascending order. This is taken to mean
                 that, from the start of a line of output, tabbing to position N shall cause the next character  out‐
                 put to be in the (N+1)th column position on that line.

                 In the event of expand having to process a <tab> at a position beyond the last of those specified in
                 a multiple tab-stop list, the <tab> shall be replaced by a single <space> in the output.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      The pathname of a text file to be used as input.

STDIN
       See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       Input files shall be text files.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of expand:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files), the process‐
                 ing of <tab> and <space> characters, and for the determination of the width in column positions each
                 character would occupy on an output device.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The  standard output shall be equivalent to the input files with <tab> characters converted into the appropri‐
       ate number of <space> characters.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       The expand utility shall terminate with an error message and non-zero exit status upon encountering  difficul‐
       ties accessing one of the file operands.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The expand utility is useful for preprocessing text files (before sorting, looking at specific columns, and so
       on) that contain <tab> characters.

       See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.103, Column Position.

       The  tablist option-argument consists of integers in ascending order. Utility Syntax Guideline 8 mandates that
       expand shall accept the integers (within the single argument) separated using either <comma> or <blank>  char‐
       acters.

       Earlier versions of this standard allowed the following form in the SYNOPSIS:

           expand [−tabstop][−tab1,tab2,...,tabn][file ...]

       This form is no longer specified by POSIX.1‐2008 but may be present in some implementations.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       tabs, unexpand

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.103, Column Position, Chapter 8, Environment Variables,
       Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              EXPAND(1P)
