EXPORT(1P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    EXPORT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       export — set the export attribute for variables

SYNOPSIS
       export name[=word]...

       export −p

DESCRIPTION
       The  shell  shall give the export attribute to the variables corresponding to the specified names, which shall
       cause them to be in the environment of subsequently executed commands. If the name of a variable  is  followed
       by =word, then the value of that variable shall be set to word.

       The  export  special built-in shall support the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility
       Syntax Guidelines.

       When −p is specified, export shall write to the standard output the names and values  of  all  exported  vari‐
       ables, in the following format:

           "export %s=%s\n", <name>, <value>

       if name is set, and:

           "export %s\n", <name>

       if name is unset.

       The  shell shall format the output, including the proper use of quoting, so that it is suitable for reinput to
       the shell as commands that achieve the same exporting results, except:

        1. Read-only variables with values cannot be reset.

        2. Variables that were unset at the time they were output need not be reset to the unset state if a value  is
           assigned  to  the  variable between the time the state was saved and the time at which the saved output is
           reinput to the shell.

       When no arguments are given, the results are unspecified. If a variable assignment precedes the  command  name
       of export but that variable is not also listed as an operand of export, then that variable shall be set in the
       current  shell execution environment after the completion of the export command, but it is unspecified whether
       that variable is marked for export.

OPTIONS
       See the DESCRIPTION.

OPERANDS
       See the DESCRIPTION.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       None.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       See the DESCRIPTION.

STDERR S
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       Zero.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       Export PWD and HOME variables:

           export PWD HOME

       Set and export the PATH variable:

           export PATH=/local/bin:$PATH

       Save and restore all exported variables:

           export −p > temp-file
           unset a lot of variables
           ... processing
           . temp-file

RATIONALE
       Some historical shells use the no-argument case as the functional equivalent of what is required here with −p.
       This feature was left unspecified because it is not historical practice in all shells, and  some  scripts  may
       rely on the now-unspecified results on their implementations. Attempts to specify the −p output as the default
       case were unsuccessful in achieving consensus.  The −p option was added to allow portable access to the values
       that can be saved and then later restored using; for example, a dot script.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.14, Special Built-In Utilities

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              EXPORT(1P)
