FATTACH(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   FATTACH(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fattach — attach a STREAMS-based file descriptor to a file in the file system name space (STREAMS)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stropts.h>

       int fattach(int fildes, const char *path);

DESCRIPTION
       The fattach() function shall attach a STREAMS-based file descriptor to a file, effectively associating a path‐
       name with fildes.  The application shall ensure that the fildes argument is a valid open file descriptor asso‐
       ciated  with a STREAMS file. The path argument points to a pathname of an existing file. The application shall
       have appropriate privileges or be the owner of the file named by path and have write permission. A  successful
       call  to fattach() shall cause all pathnames that name the file named by path to name the STREAMS file associ‐
       ated with fildes, until the STREAMS file is detached from the file. A STREAMS file can  be  attached  to  more
       than one file and can have several pathnames associated with it.

       The  attributes of the named STREAMS file shall be initialized as follows: the permissions, user ID, group ID,
       and times are set to those of the file named by path, the number of links is set to 1, and the size and device
       identifier are set to those of the STREAMS file associated with  fildes.   If  any  attributes  of  the  named
       STREAMS file are subsequently changed (for example, by chmod()), neither the attributes of the underlying file
       nor the attributes of the STREAMS file to which fildes refers shall be affected.

       File  descriptors referring to the underlying file, opened prior to an fattach() call, shall continue to refer
       to the underlying file.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fattach() shall return 0. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set  to  indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       The fattach() function shall fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix, or the process is the owner of path but
              does not have write permissions on the file named by path.

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid open file descriptor.

       EBUSY  The file named by path is currently a mount point or has a STREAMS file attached to it.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link
              to a directory, or the path argument contains at least one non-<slash> character and ends with  one  or
              more trailing <slash> characters.

       EPERM  The  effective  user  ID of the process is not the owner of the file named by path and the process does
              not have appropriate privileges.

       The fattach() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The fildes argument does not refer to a STREAMS file.

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       EXDEV  A link to a file on another file system was attempted.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Attaching a File Descriptor to a File
       In the following example, fd refers to an open STREAMS file. The call to fattach() associates this STREAM with
       the  file  /tmp/named-STREAM,  such that any future calls to open /tmp/named-STREAM, prior to breaking the at‐
       tachment via a call to fdetach(), will instead create a new file handle referring to the STREAMS file  associ‐
       ated with fd.

           #include <stropts.h>
           ...
               int fd;
               char *pathname = "/tmp/named-STREAM";
               int ret;

               ret = fattach(fd, pathname);

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  fattach() function behaves similarly to the traditional mount() function in the way a file is temporarily
       replaced by the root directory of the mounted file system. In the case of fattach(), the  replaced  file  need
       not be a directory and the replacing file is a STREAMS file.

RATIONALE
       The  file attributes of a file which has been the subject of an fattach() call are specifically set because of
       an artifact of the original implementation. The internal mechanism was the same as for the  mount()  function.
       Since  mount() is typically only applied to directories, the effects when applied to a regular file are a lit‐
       tle surprising, especially as regards the link count which rigidly remains one, even  if  there  were  several
       links originally and despite the fact that all original links refer to the STREAM as long as the fattach() re‐
       mains in effect.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The fattach() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       fdetach(), isastream()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stropts.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             FATTACH(3P)
