FCHDIR(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    FCHDIR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fchdir — change working directory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int fchdir(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The  fchdir()  function shall be equivalent to chdir() except that the directory that is to be the new current
       working directory is specified by the file descriptor fildes.

       A conforming application can obtain a file descriptor for a file of type directory using open(), provided that
       the file status flags and access modes do not contain O_WRONLY or O_RDWR.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fchdir() shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno  to  indicate
       the error. On failure the current working directory shall remain unchanged.

ERRORS
       The fchdir() function shall fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied for the directory referenced by fildes.

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not an open file descriptor.

       ENOTDIR
              The open file descriptor fildes does not refer to a directory.

       The fchdir() may fail if:

       EINTR  A signal was caught during the execution of fchdir().

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chdir(), dirfd()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              FCHDIR(3P)
