FCLOSE(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    FCLOSE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fclose — close a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int fclose(FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fclose() function shall cause the stream pointed to by stream to be flushed and the associated file to  be
       closed.  Any  unwritten  buffered  data  for the stream shall be written to the file; any unread buffered data
       shall be discarded. Whether or not the call succeeds, the stream shall be disassociated from the file and  any
       buffer  set  by  the  setbuf() or setvbuf() function shall be disassociated from the stream. If the associated
       buffer was automatically allocated, it shall be deallocated.

       If the file is not already at EOF, and the file is one capable of seeking, the file offset of  the  underlying
       open  file  description  shall be set to the file position of the stream if the stream is the active handle to
       the underlying file description.

       The fclose() function shall mark for update the last data modification and last file status change  timestamps
       of the underlying file, if the stream was writable, and if buffered data remains that has not yet been written
       to  the  file.  The fclose() function shall perform the equivalent of a close() on the file descriptor that is
       associated with the stream pointed to by stream.

       After the call to fclose(), any use of stream results in undefined behavior.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fclose() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return EOF and set errno to  indicate
       the error.

ERRORS
       The fclose() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN The O_NONBLOCK flag is set for the file descriptor underlying stream and the thread would be delayed in
              the write operation.

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying stream is not valid.

       EFBIG  An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the maximum file size.

       EFBIG  An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the file size limit of the process.

       EFBIG  The  file is a regular file and an attempt was made to write at or beyond the offset maximum associated
              with the corresponding stream.

       EINTR  The fclose() function was interrupted by a signal.

       EIO    The process is a member of a background process group attempting to write to its controlling  terminal,
              TOSTOP is set, the calling thread is not blocking SIGTTOU, the process is not ignoring SIGTTOU, and the
              process group of the process is orphaned.  This error may also be returned under implementation-defined
              conditions.

       ENOMEM The  underlying  stream was created by open_memstream() or open_wmemstream() and insufficient memory is
              available.

       ENOSPC There was no free space remaining on the device containing the file or in the buffer used by the fmemo‐
              pen() function.

       EPIPE  An attempt is made to write to a pipe or FIFO that is not open for reading by any  process.  A  SIGPIPE
              signal shall also be sent to the thread.

       The fclose() function may fail if:

       ENXIO  A request was made of a nonexistent device, or the request was outside the capabilities of the device.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, close(), fmemopen(), fopen(), getrlimit(), open_memstream(), ulimit()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              FCLOSE(3P)
