FDATASYNC(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 FDATASYNC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fdatasync — synchronize the data of a file (REALTIME)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int fdatasync(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The fdatasync() function shall force all currently queued I/O operations associated with the file indicated by
       file descriptor fildes to the synchronized I/O completion state.

       The  functionality shall be equivalent to fsync() with the symbol _POSIX_SYNCHRONIZED_IO defined, with the ex‐
       ception that all I/O operations shall be completed as defined for synchronized I/O data integrity completion.

RETURN VALUE
       If successful, the fdatasync() function shall return the value 0; otherwise, the  function  shall  return  the
       value  −1  and  set errno to indicate the error. If the fdatasync() function fails, outstanding I/O operations
       are not guaranteed to have been completed.

ERRORS
       The fdatasync() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor open for writing.

       EINVAL This implementation does not support synchronized I/O for this file.

       In the event that any of the queued I/O operations fail, fdatasync() shall return the error conditions defined
       for read() and write().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       aio_fsync(), fcntl(), fsync(), open(), read(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           FDATASYNC(3P)
