FDETACH(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   FDETACH(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fdetach — detach a name from a STREAMS-based file descriptor (STREAMS)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stropts.h>

       int fdetach(const char *path);

DESCRIPTION
       The  fdetach() function shall detach a STREAMS-based file from the file to which it was attached by a previous
       call to fattach().  The path argument points to the pathname of the attached STREAMS file. The  process  shall
       have appropriate privileges or be the owner of the file.  A successful call to fdetach() shall cause all path‐
       names  that named the attached STREAMS file to again name the file to which the STREAMS file was attached. All
       subsequent operations on path shall operate on the underlying file and not on the STREAMS file.

       All open file descriptions established while the STREAMS file was attached to  the  file  referenced  by  path
       shall still refer to the STREAMS file after the fdetach() has taken effect.

       If  there are no open file descriptors or other references to the STREAMS file, then a successful call to fde‐
       tach() shall be equivalent to performing the last close() on the attached file.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fdetach() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno to  indicate
       the error.

ERRORS
       The fdetach() function shall fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.

       EINVAL The path argument names a file that is not currently attached.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link
              to a directory, or the path argument contains at least one non-<slash> character and ends with  one  or
              more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname component names an existing file that is neither
              a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       EPERM  The effective user ID is not the owner of path and the process does not have appropriate privileges.

       The fdetach() function may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The  length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Detaching a File
       The following example detaches the STREAMS-based file /tmp/named-STREAM from the file to which it was attached
       by a previous, successful call to fattach().  Subsequent calls to open this file refer to the underlying file,
       not to the STREAMS file.

           #include <stropts.h>
           ...
               char *pathname = "/tmp/named-STREAM";
               int ret;

               ret = fdetach(pathname);

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The fdetach() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       fattach()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stropts.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             FDETACH(3P)
