FDOPEN(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    FDOPEN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fdopen — associate a stream with a file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       FILE *fdopen(int fildes, const char *mode);

DESCRIPTION
       The fdopen() function shall associate a stream with a file descriptor.

       The mode argument is a character string having one of the following values:

       r or rb       Open a file for reading.

       w or wb       Open a file for writing.

       a or ab       Open a file for writing at end-of-file.

       r+ or rb+ or r+b
                     Open a file for update (reading and writing).

       w+ or wb+ or w+b
                     Open a file for update (reading and writing).

       a+ or ab+ or a+b
                     Open a file for update (reading and writing) at end-of-file.

       The  meaning  of  these flags is exactly as specified in fopen(), except that modes beginning with w shall not
       cause truncation of the file.

       Additional values for the mode argument may be supported by an implementation.

       The application shall ensure that the mode of the stream as expressed by the mode argument is allowed  by  the
       file  access  mode of the open file description to which fildes refers. The file position indicator associated
       with the new stream is set to the position indicated by the file offset associated with the file descriptor.

       The error and end-of-file indicators for the stream shall be cleared.  The fdopen()  function  may  cause  the
       last data access timestamp of the underlying file to be marked for update.

       If fildes refers to a shared memory object, the result of the fdopen() function is unspecified.

       If fildes refers to a typed memory object, the result of the fdopen() function is unspecified.

       The  fdopen()  function  shall preserve the offset maximum previously set for the open file description corre‐
       sponding to fildes.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fdopen() shall return a pointer to a stream; otherwise, a null  pointer  shall  be
       returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fdopen() function shall fail if:

       EMFILE {STREAM_MAX} streams are currently open in the calling process.

       The fdopen() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL The mode argument is not a valid mode.

       EMFILE {FOPEN_MAX} streams are currently open in the calling process.

       ENOMEM Insufficient space to allocate a buffer.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       File  descriptors  are obtained from calls like open(), dup(), creat(), or pipe(), which open files but do not
       return streams.

RATIONALE
       The file descriptor may have been obtained from open(), creat(), pipe(), dup(), fcntl(), or  socket();  inher‐
       ited through fork(), posix_spawn(), or exec; or perhaps obtained by other means.

       The  meanings  of  the  mode arguments of fdopen() and fopen() differ. With fdopen(), open for write (w or w+)
       does not truncate, and append (a or a+) cannot create for writing. The mode argument formats that include a  b
       are  allowed  for  consistency with the ISO C standard function fopen().  The b has no effect on the resulting
       stream. Although not explicitly required by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, a good implementation of  append  (a)
       mode would cause the O_APPEND flag to be set.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section  2.5.1,  Interaction  of  File  Descriptors  and  Standard I/O Streams, fclose(), fmemopen(), fopen(),
       open(), open_memstream(), posix_spawn(), socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              FDOPEN(3P)
