FEGETEXCEPTFLAG(3P)                           POSIX Programmer's Manual                           FEGETEXCEPTFLAG(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fegetexceptflag, fesetexceptflag — get and set floating-point status flags

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fenv.h>

       int fegetexceptflag(fexcept_t *flagp, int excepts);
       int fesetexceptflag(const fexcept_t *flagp, int excepts);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fegetexceptflag() function shall attempt to store an implementation-defined representation of  the  states
       of  the floating-point status flags indicated by the argument excepts in the object pointed to by the argument
       flagp.

       The fesetexceptflag() function shall attempt to set the floating-point status flags indicated by the  argument
       excepts to the states stored in the object pointed to by flagp.  The value pointed to by flagp shall have been
       set  by  a  previous call to fegetexceptflag() whose second argument represented at least those floating-point
       exceptions represented by the argument excepts.  This function does not raise floating-point  exceptions,  but
       only sets the state of the flags.

RETURN VALUE
       If the representation was successfully stored, fegetexceptflag() shall return zero. Otherwise, it shall return
       a  non-zero  value.  If the excepts argument is zero or if all the specified exceptions were successfully set,
       fesetexceptflag() shall return zero. Otherwise, it shall return a non-zero value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       feclearexcept(), feraiseexcept(), fetestexcept()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <fenv.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                     FEGETEXCEPTFLAG(3P)
