FEHOLDEXCEPT(3P)                              POSIX Programmer's Manual                              FEHOLDEXCEPT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       feholdexcept — save current floating-point environment

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fenv.h>

       int feholdexcept(fenv_t *envp);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The feholdexcept() function shall save the current floating-point environment in  the  object  pointed  to  by
       envp,  clear  the  floating-point status flags, and then install a non-stop (continue on floating-point excep‐
       tions) mode, if available, for all floating-point exceptions.

RETURN VALUE
       The feholdexcept() function shall return zero if and only if non-stop floating-point  exception  handling  was
       successfully installed.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  feholdexcept() function should be effective on typical IEC 60559:1989 standard implementations which have
       the default non-stop mode and at least one other mode for trap handling or  aborting.  If  the  implementation
       provides only the non-stop mode, then installing the non-stop mode is trivial.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fegetenv(), feupdateenv()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <fenv.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                        FEHOLDEXCEPT(3P)
