FERAISEEXCEPT(3P)                             POSIX Programmer's Manual                             FERAISEEXCEPT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       feraiseexcept — raise floating-point exception

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fenv.h>

       int feraiseexcept(int excepts);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The feraiseexcept() function shall attempt to raise the supported floating-point exceptions represented by the
       argument excepts.  The order in which these floating-point exceptions are raised is unspecified.  Whether  the
       feraiseexcept() function additionally raises the inexact floating-point exception whenever it raises the over‐
       flow or underflow floating-point exception is implementation-defined.

RETURN VALUE
       If the argument is zero or if all the specified exceptions were successfully raised, feraiseexcept() shall re‐
       turn zero. Otherwise, it shall return a non-zero value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  effect  is  intended  to be similar to that of floating-point exceptions raised by arithmetic operations.
       Hence, enabled traps for floating-point exceptions raised by this function are taken.

RATIONALE
       Raising overflow or underflow is allowed to also raise inexact because on some architectures the only  practi‐
       cal  way to raise an exception is to execute an instruction that has the exception as a side-effect. The func‐
       tion is not restricted to accept only valid coincident expressions for atomic operations, so the function  can
       be used to raise exceptions accrued over several operations.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       feclearexcept(), fegetexceptflag(), fetestexcept()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <fenv.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                       FERAISEEXCEPT(3P)
