FG(1P)                                        POSIX Programmer's Manual                                        FG(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fg — run jobs in the foreground

SYNOPSIS
       fg [job_id]

DESCRIPTION
       If job control is enabled (see the description of set −m), the fg utility shall move a background job from the
       current environment (see Section 2.12, Shell Execution Environment) into the foreground.

       Using  fg to place a job into the foreground shall remove its process ID from the list of those ``known in the
       current shell execution environment''; see Section 2.9.3.1, Examples.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       job_id    Specify the job to be run as a foreground job. If no job_id operand is given, the job_id for the job
                 that was most recently suspended, placed in the background, or run as  a  background  job  shall  be
                 used.  The  format  of  job_id  is described in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section
                 3.204, Job Control Job ID.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of fg:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The fg utility shall write the command line of the job to standard output in the following format:

           "%s\n", <command>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       If job control is disabled, the fg utility shall exit with an error and no job shall be placed  in  the  fore‐
       ground.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The fg utility does not work as expected when it is operating in its own utility execution environment because
       that  environment  has  no  applicable jobs to manipulate. See the APPLICATION USAGE section for bg.  For this
       reason, fg is generally implemented as a shell regular built-in.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The extensions to the shell specified in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 have mostly been based on  features  pro‐
       vided by the KornShell. The job control features provided by bg, fg, and jobs are also based on the KornShell.
       The standard developers examined the characteristics of the C shell versions of these utilities and found that
       differences exist. Despite widespread use of the C shell, the KornShell versions were selected for this volume
       of  POSIX.1‐2008  to maintain a degree of uniformity with the rest of the KornShell features selected (such as
       the very popular command line editing features).

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.9.3.1, Examples, Section 2.12, Shell Execution Environment, bg, kill, jobs, wait

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.204, Job Control Job ID, Chapter 8,  Environment  Vari‐
       ables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                  FG(1P)
