FGETPOS(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   FGETPOS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fgetpos — get current file position information

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int fgetpos(FILE *restrict stream, fpos_t *restrict pos);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fgetpos() function shall store the current values of the parse state (if any) and file position  indicator
       for  the  stream  pointed to by stream in the object pointed to by pos.  The value stored contains unspecified
       information usable by fsetpos() for repositioning the stream to its position at the time of the call to  fget‐
       pos().

       The fgetpos() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, fgetpos() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return a non-zero value and set er‐
       rno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fgetpos() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying stream is not valid.

       EOVERFLOW
              The current value of the file position cannot be represented correctly in an object of type fpos_t.

       ESPIPE The file descriptor underlying stream is associated with a pipe, FIFO, or socket.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fopen(), ftell(), rewind(), ungetc()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             FGETPOS(3P)
