FGETWC(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    FGETWC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fgetwc — get a wide-character code from a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>
       #include <wchar.h>

       wint_t fgetwc(FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fgetwc() function shall obtain the next character (if present) from the input stream pointed to by stream,
       convert that to the corresponding wide-character code, and advance the associated file position indicator  for
       the stream (if defined).

       If an error occurs, the resulting value of the file position indicator for the stream is unspecified.

       The  fgetwc()  function may mark the last data access timestamp of the file associated with stream for update.
       The last data access timestamp shall be marked for update by  the  first  successful  execution  of  fgetwc(),
       fgetws(),  fwscanf(),  getwc(),  getwchar(), vfwscanf(), vwscanf(), or wscanf() using stream that returns data
       not supplied by a prior call to ungetwc().

       The fgetwc() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the fgetwc() function shall return the wide-character code of the  character  read
       from  the  input stream pointed to by stream converted to a type wint_t.  If the end-of-file indicator for the
       stream is set, or if the stream is at end-of-file, the end-of-file indicator for the stream shall be  set  and
       fgetwc()  shall return WEOF. If a read error occurs, the error indicator for the stream shall be set, fgetwc()
       shall return WEOF, and shall set errno to indicate the error.  If an encoding error occurs, the error  indica‐
       tor for the stream shall be set, fgetwc() shall return WEOF, and shall set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fgetwc() function shall fail if data needs to be read and:

       EAGAIN The O_NONBLOCK flag is set for the file descriptor underlying stream and the thread would be delayed in
              the fgetwc() operation.

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying stream is not a valid file descriptor open for reading.

       EILSEQ The data obtained from the input stream does not form a valid character.

       EINTR  The read operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no data was transferred.

       EIO    A  physical  I/O error has occurred, or the process is in a background process group attempting to read
              from its controlling terminal, and either the calling thread is blocking SIGTTIN or the process is  ig‐
              noring  SIGTTIN  or the process group of the process is orphaned.  This error may also be generated for
              implementation-defined reasons.

       EOVERFLOW
              The file is a regular file and an attempt was made to read at or beyond the offset  maximum  associated
              with the corresponding stream.

       The fgetwc() function may fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient storage space is available.

       ENXIO  A request was made of a nonexistent device, or the request was outside the capabilities of the device.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  ferror()  or  feof()  functions must be used to distinguish between an error condition and an end-of-file
       condition.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, feof(), ferror(), fopen()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              FGETWC(3P)
