FGETC(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     FGETC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fgetc — get a byte from a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int fgetc(FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       If the end-of-file indicator for the input stream pointed to by stream is not set and a next byte is  present,
       the fgetc() function shall obtain the next byte as an unsigned char converted to an int, from the input stream
       pointed  to  by  stream, and advance the associated file position indicator for the stream (if defined). Since
       fgetc() operates on bytes, reading a character consisting of multiple bytes (or  ``a  multi-byte  character'')
       may require multiple calls to fgetc().

       The  fgetc()  function  may mark the last data access timestamp of the file associated with stream for update.
       The last data access timestamp shall be marked for update  by  the  first  successful  execution  of  fgetc(),
       fgets(), fread(), fscanf(), getc(), getchar(), getdelim(), getline(), gets(), or scanf() using stream that re‐
       turns data not supplied by a prior call to ungetc().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fgetc() shall return the next byte from the input stream pointed to by stream.  If
       the end-of-file indicator for the stream is set, or if the stream is at end-of-file, the end-of-file indicator
       for  the stream shall be set and fgetc() shall return EOF. If a read error occurs, the error indicator for the
       stream shall be set, fgetc() shall return EOF, and shall set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fgetc() function shall fail if data needs to be read and:

       EAGAIN The O_NONBLOCK flag is set for the file descriptor underlying stream and the thread would be delayed in
              the fgetc() operation.

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying stream is not a valid file descriptor open for reading.

       EINTR  The read operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no data was transferred.

       EIO    A physical I/O error has occurred, or the process is in a background process group attempting  to  read
              from  its controlling terminal, and either the calling thread is blocking SIGTTIN or the process is ig‐
              noring SIGTTIN or the process group of the process is orphaned.  This error may also be  generated  for
              implementation-defined reasons.

       EOVERFLOW
              The  file  is a regular file and an attempt was made to read at or beyond the offset maximum associated
              with the corresponding stream.

       The fgetc() function may fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient storage space is available.

       ENXIO  A request was made of a nonexistent device, or the request was outside the capabilities of the device.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If the integer value returned by fgetc() is stored into a variable of type char and then compared against  the
       integer  constant  EOF, the comparison may never succeed, because sign-extension of a variable of type char on
       widening to integer is implementation-defined.

       The ferror() or feof() functions must be used to distinguish between an error  condition  and  an  end-of-file
       condition.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section  2.5,  Standard  I/O Streams, feof(), ferror(), fgets(), fread(), fscanf(), getchar(), getc(), gets(),
       ungetc()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               FGETC(3P)
