FGETWS(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    FGETWS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fgetws — get a wide-character string from a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>
       #include <wchar.h>

       wchar_t *fgetws(wchar_t *restrict ws, int n,
           FILE *restrict stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fgetws() function shall read characters from the stream, convert these to the corresponding wide-character
       codes, place them in the wchar_t array pointed to by ws, until n−1 characters are  read,  or  a  <newline>  is
       read, converted, and transferred to ws, or an end-of-file condition is encountered. The wide-character string,
       ws, shall then be terminated with a null wide-character code.

       If an error occurs, the resulting value of the file position indicator for the stream is unspecified.

       The  fgetws()  function may mark the last data access timestamp of the file associated with stream for update.
       The last data access timestamp shall be marked for update by  the  first  successful  execution  of  fgetwc(),
       fgetws(),  fwscanf(),  getwc(),  getwchar(), vfwscanf(), vwscanf(), or wscanf() using stream that returns data
       not supplied by a prior call to ungetwc().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fgetws() shall return ws.  If the end-of-file indicator for the stream is set,  or
       if  the stream is at end-of-file, the end-of-file indicator for the stream shall be set and fgetws() shall re‐
       turn a null pointer. If a read error occurs, the error indicator for the stream shall be set,  fgetws()  shall
       return a null pointer, and shall set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       Refer to fgetwc().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fopen(), fread()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              FGETWS(3P)
