FILENO(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    FILENO(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fileno — map a stream pointer to a file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int fileno(FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  fileno()  function  shall  return  the  integer  file descriptor associated with the stream pointed to by
       stream.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fileno() shall return the integer value of the  file  descriptor  associated  with
       stream.  Otherwise, the value −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fileno() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The stream argument is not a valid stream, or the stream is not associated with a file.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Without  some  specification of which file descriptors are associated with these streams, it is impossible for
       an application to set up the streams for another application it starts with fork() and exec.   In  particular,
       it  would  not  be  possible  to write a portable version of the sh command interpreter (although there may be
       other constraints that would prevent that portability).

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5.1, Interaction of File Descriptors and Standard I/O Streams, dirfd(), fdopen(), fopen(), stdin

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              FILENO(3P)
