FLOCKFILE(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 FLOCKFILE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       flockfile, ftrylockfile, funlockfile — stdio locking functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       void flockfile(FILE *file);
       int ftrylockfile(FILE *file);
       void funlockfile(FILE *file);

DESCRIPTION
       These  functions  shall  provide for explicit application-level locking of stdio (FILE *) objects. These func‐
       tions can be used by a thread to delineate a sequence of I/O statements that are executed as a unit.

       The flockfile() function shall acquire for a thread ownership of a (FILE *) object.

       The ftrylockfile() function shall acquire for a thread ownership of a (FILE *) object if the object is  avail‐
       able; ftrylockfile() is a non-blocking version of flockfile().

       The funlockfile() function shall relinquish the ownership granted to the thread.  The behavior is undefined if
       a thread other than the current owner calls the funlockfile() function.

       The functions shall behave as if there is a lock count associated with each (FILE *) object. This count is im‐
       plicitly  initialized  to  zero  when the (FILE *) object is created. The (FILE *) object is unlocked when the
       count is zero. When the count is positive, a single thread owns the (FILE  *)  object.  When  the  flockfile()
       function  is called, if the count is zero or if the count is positive and the caller owns the (FILE *) object,
       the count shall be incremented. Otherwise, the calling thread shall be suspended, waiting for the count to re‐
       turn to zero. Each call to funlockfile() shall decrement the count. This allows matching calls to  flockfile()
       (or successful calls to ftrylockfile()) and funlockfile() to be nested.

       All functions that reference (FILE *) objects, except those with names ending in _unlocked, shall behave as if
       they use flockfile() and funlockfile() internally to obtain ownership of these (FILE *) objects.

RETURN VALUE
       None for flockfile() and funlockfile().

       The ftrylockfile() function shall return zero for success and non-zero to indicate that the lock cannot be ac‐
       quired.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Applications  using these functions may be subject to priority inversion, as discussed in the Base Definitions
       volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.287, Priority Inversion.

RATIONALE
       The flockfile() and funlockfile() functions provide an orthogonal mutual-exclusion lock for  each  FILE.   The
       ftrylockfile()  function  provides  a  non-blocking  attempt  to acquire a file lock, analogous to pthread_mu‐
       tex_trylock().

       These locks behave as if they are the same as those used internally by stdio  for  thread-safety.   This  both
       provides  thread-safety  of  these  functions  without requiring a second level of internal locking and allows
       functions in stdio to be implemented in terms of other stdio functions.

       Application developers and implementors should be aware that there are potential deadlock problems on FILE ob‐
       jects. For example, the line-buffered flushing semantics of stdio (requested via {_IOLBF}) require  that  cer‐
       tain  input  operations  sometimes  cause the buffered contents of implementation-defined line-buffered output
       streams to be flushed. If two threads each hold the lock on the other's FILE, deadlock ensues.  This  type  of
       deadlock can be avoided by acquiring FILE locks in a consistent order. In particular, the line-buffered output
       stream deadlock can typically be avoided by acquiring locks on input streams before locks on output streams if
       a thread would be acquiring both.

       In  summary,  threads  sharing stdio streams with other threads can use flockfile() and funlockfile() to cause
       sequences of I/O performed by a single thread to be kept bundled. The only case where the use  of  flockfile()
       and  funlockfile()  is required is to provide a scope protecting uses of the *_unlocked functions/macros. This
       moves the cost/performance tradeoff to the optimal point.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getc_unlocked()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.287, Priority Inversion, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           FLOCKFILE(3P)
