FLOOR(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     FLOOR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       floor, floorf, floorl — floor function

SYNOPSIS
       #include <math.h>

       double floor(double x);
       float floorf(float x);
       long double floorl(long double x);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall compute the largest integral value not greater than x.

RETURN VALUE
       The result shall have the same sign as x.

       Upon successful completion, these functions shall return the largest integral value not greater  than  x,  ex‐
       pressed as a double, float, or long double, as appropriate for the return type of the function.

       If x is NaN, a NaN shall be returned.

       If x is ±0 or ±Inf, x shall be returned.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  integral  value  returned  by  these functions might not be expressible as an intmax_t.  The return value
       should be tested before assigning it to an integer type to avoid the undefined results of an integer overflow.

       These functions may raise the inexact floating-point exception if the result differs in value from  the  argu‐
       ment.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       ceil(), feclearexcept(), fetestexcept(), isnan()

       Section 4.19, Treatment of Error Conditions for Mathematical Functions, <math.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               FLOOR(3P)
