FMEMOPEN(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  FMEMOPEN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fmemopen — open a memory buffer stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       FILE *fmemopen(void *restrict buf, size_t size,
           const char *restrict mode);

DESCRIPTION
       The  fmemopen() function shall associate the buffer given by the buf and size arguments with a stream. The buf
       argument shall be either a null pointer or point to a buffer that is at least size bytes long.

       The mode argument points to a string. If the string is one of the following, the stream shall be opened in the
       indicated mode. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

       r       Open the stream for reading.

       w       Open the stream for writing.

       a       Append; open the stream for writing at the first null byte.

       r+      Open the stream for update (reading and writing).

       w+      Open the stream for update (reading and writing). Truncate the buffer contents.

       a+      Append; open the stream for update (reading and writing); the initial position is at  the  first  null
               byte.

       Implementations  shall accept all mode strings allowed by fopen(), but the use of the character 'b' shall pro‐
       duce implementation-defined results, where the resulting FILE * need not behave the same as if 'b' were  omit‐
       ted.

       If  a null pointer is specified as the buf argument, fmemopen() shall allocate size bytes of memory as if by a
       call to malloc().  This buffer shall be automatically freed when the stream is closed.  Because  this  feature
       is only useful when the stream is opened for updating (because there is no way to get a pointer to the buffer)
       the fmemopen() call may fail if the mode argument does not include a '+'.

       The stream shall maintain a current position in the buffer. This position shall be initially set to either the
       beginning  of the buffer (for r and w modes) or to the first null byte in the buffer (for a modes). If no null
       byte is found in append mode, the initial position shall be set to one byte after the end of the buffer.

       If buf is a null pointer, the initial position shall always be set to the beginning of the buffer.

       The stream shall also maintain the size of the current buffer contents; use of  fseek()  or  fseeko()  on  the
       stream  with  SEEK_END shall seek relative to this size. For modes r and r+ the size shall be set to the value
       given by the size argument. For modes w and w+ the initial size shall be zero and for modes a and a+ the  ini‐
       tial  size shall be either the position of the first null byte in the buffer or the value of the size argument
       if no null byte is found.

       A read operation on the stream shall not advance the current buffer position beyond the current  buffer  size.
       Reaching  the  buffer  size in a read operation shall count as ``end-of-file''. Null bytes in the buffer shall
       have no special meaning for reads. The read operation shall start  at  the  current  buffer  position  of  the
       stream.

       A  write  operation shall start either at the current position of the stream (if mode has not specified 'a' as
       the first character) or at the current size of the stream (if mode had 'a' as the  first  character).  If  the
       current position at the end of the write is larger than the current buffer size, the current buffer size shall
       be  set to the current position. A write operation on the stream shall not advance the current buffer size be‐
       yond the size given in the size argument.

       When a stream open for writing is flushed or closed, a null byte shall be written at the current  position  or
       at  the  end  of  the buffer, depending on the size of the contents. If a stream open for update is flushed or
       closed and the last write has advanced the current buffer size, a null byte shall be written at the end of the
       buffer if it fits.

       An attempt to seek a memory buffer stream to a negative position or to a position larger than the buffer  size
       given in the size argument shall fail.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fmemopen() shall return a pointer to the object controlling the stream. Otherwise,
       a null pointer shall be returned, and errno shall be set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fmemopen() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The size argument specifies a buffer size of zero.

       The fmemopen() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the mode argument is not valid.

       EINVAL The buf argument is a null pointer and the mode argument does not include a '+' character.

       ENOMEM The buf argument is a null pointer and the allocation of a buffer of length size has failed.

       EMFILE {FOPEN_MAX} streams are currently open in the calling process.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
           #include <stdio.h>
           #include <string.h>

           static char buffer[] = "foobar";

           int
           main (void)
           {
               int ch;
               FILE *stream;

               stream = fmemopen(buffer, strlen (buffer), "r");
               if (stream == NULL)
                   /* handle error */;

               while ((ch = fgetc(stream)) != EOF)
                   printf("Got %c\n", ch);

               fclose(stream);
               return (0);
           }

       This program produces the following output:

           Got f
           Got o
           Got o
           Got b
           Got a
           Got r

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       This interface has been introduced to eliminate many of the errors encountered in the construction of strings,
       notably overflowing of strings. This interface prevents overflow.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       A future revision of this standard may mandate specific behavior when the mode argument includes 'b'.

SEE ALSO
       fdopen(), fopen(), freopen(), fseek(), malloc(), open_memstream()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            FMEMOPEN(3P)
