FMTMSG(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    FMTMSG(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fmtmsg — display a message in the specified format on standard error and/or a system console

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fmtmsg.h>

       int fmtmsg(long classification, const char *label, int severity,
           const char *text, const char *action, const char *tag);

DESCRIPTION
       The  fmtmsg()  function shall display messages in a specified format instead of the traditional printf() func‐
       tion.

       Based on a message's classification component, fmtmsg() shall write a formatted message either to standard er‐
       ror, to the console, or to both.

       A formatted message consists of up to five components as defined below. The component  classification  is  not
       part  of a message displayed to the user, but defines the source of the message and directs the display of the
       formatted message.

       classification
                   Contains the sum of identifying values constructed from the constants defined below. Any one iden‐
                   tifier from a subclass may be used in combination with a single identifier from a  different  sub‐
                   class. Two or more identifiers from the same subclass should not be used together, with the excep‐
                   tion  of  identifiers from the display subclass. (Both display subclass identifiers may be used so
                   that messages can be displayed to both standard error and the system console.)

                   Major Classifications
                         Identifies the source of the condition. Identifiers are: MM_HARD (hardware), MM_SOFT  (soft‐
                         ware), and MM_FIRM (firmware).

                   Message Source Subclassifications
                         Identifies  the type of software in which the problem is detected.  Identifiers are: MM_APPL
                         (application), MM_UTIL (utility), and MM_OPSYS (operating system).

                   Display Subclassifications
                         Indicates where the message is to be displayed. Identifiers are:  MM_PRINT  to  display  the
                         message  on  the standard error stream, MM_CONSOLE to display the message on the system con‐
                         sole. One or both identifiers may be used.

                   Status Subclassifications
                         Indicates whether the application can recover from the condition.  Identifiers  are:  MM_RE‐
                         COVER (recoverable) and MM_NRECOV (non-recoverable).

                   An  additional  identifier,  MM_NULLMC, indicates that no classification component is supplied for
                   the message.

       label       Identifies the source of the message. The format is two fields separated by a <colon>.  The  first
                   field is up to 10 bytes, the second is up to 14 bytes.

       severity    Indicates the seriousness of the condition. Identifiers for the levels of severity are:

                   MM_HALT     Indicates that the application has encountered a severe fault and is halting. Produces
                               the string "HALT".

                   MM_ERROR    Indicates that the application has detected a fault. Produces the string "ERROR".

                   MM_WARNING  Indicates a condition that is out of the ordinary, that might be a problem, and should
                               be watched. Produces the string "WARNING".

                   MM_INFO     Provides  information  about  a  condition  that  is not in error. Produces the string
                               "INFO".

                   MM_NOSEV    Indicates that no severity level is supplied for the message.

       text        Describes the error condition that produced the message. The character string is not limited to  a
                   specific size. If the character string is empty, then the text produced is unspecified.

       action      Describes  the  first  step to be taken in the error-recovery process.  The fmtmsg() function pre‐
                   cedes the action string with the prefix: "TOFIX:".  The action string is not limited to a specific
                   size.

       tag         An identifier that references on-line documentation for the message.  Suggested usage is that  tag
                   includes the label and a unique identifying number. A sample tag is "XSI:cat:146".

       The MSGVERB environment variable (for message verbosity) shall determine for fmtmsg() which message components
       it  is  to  select  when writing messages to standard error. The value of MSGVERB shall be a <colon>-separated
       list of optional keywords. Valid keywords are: label, severity, text, action, and tag. If MSGVERB  contains  a
       keyword  for  a  component and the component's value is not the component's null value, fmtmsg() shall include
       that component in the message when writing the message to standard error. If MSGVERB does not include  a  key‐
       word for a message component, that component shall not be included in the display of the message. The keywords
       may  appear  in  any order. If MSGVERB is not defined, if its value is the null string, if its value is not of
       the correct format, or if it contains keywords other than the valid ones listed above, fmtmsg()  shall  select
       all components.

       MSGVERB  shall  determine  which components are selected for display to standard error. All message components
       shall be included in console messages.

RETURN VALUE
       The fmtmsg() function shall return one of the following values:

       MM_OK       The function succeeded.

       MM_NOTOK    The function failed completely.

       MM_NOMSG    The function was unable to generate a message on standard error, but otherwise succeeded.

       MM_NOCON    The function was unable to generate a console message, but otherwise succeeded.

ERRORS
       None.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
        1. The following example of fmtmsg():

               fmtmsg(MM_PRINT, "XSI:cat", MM_ERROR, "illegal option",
               "refer to cat in user's reference manual", "XSI:cat:001")

           produces a complete message in the specified message format:

               XSI:cat: ERROR: illegal option
               TO FIX: refer to cat in user's reference manual XSI:cat:001

        2. When the environment variable MSGVERB is set as follows:

               MSGVERB=severity:text:action

           and Example 1 is used, fmtmsg() produces:

               ERROR: illegal option
               TO FIX: refer to cat in user's reference manual

APPLICATION USAGE
       One or more message components may be systematically omitted from messages generated by an application by  us‐
       ing the null value of the argument for that component.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fprintf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <fmtmsg.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              FMTMSG(3P)
