FORK(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      FORK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fork — create a new process

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t fork(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The  fork() function shall create a new process. The new process (child process) shall be an exact copy of the
       calling process (parent process) except as detailed below:

        *  The child process shall have a unique process ID.

        *  The child process ID also shall not match any active process group ID.

        *  The child process shall have a different parent process ID, which shall be the process ID of  the  calling
           process.

        *  The  child  process shall have its own copy of the parent's file descriptors. Each of the child's file de‐
           scriptors shall refer to the same open file description with the corresponding file descriptor of the par‐
           ent.

        *  The child process shall have its own copy of the parent's open  directory  streams.  Each  open  directory
           stream in the child process may share directory stream positioning with the corresponding directory stream
           of the parent.

        *  The child process shall have its own copy of the parent's message catalog descriptors.

        *  The child process values of tms_utime, tms_stime, tms_cutime, and tms_cstime shall be set to 0.

        *  The  time  left  until  an alarm clock signal shall be reset to zero, and the alarm, if any, shall be can‐
           celed; see alarm().

        *  All semadj values shall be cleared.

        *  File locks set by the parent process shall not be inherited by the child process.

        *  The set of signals pending for the child process shall be initialized to the empty set.

        *  Interval timers shall be reset in the child process.

        *  Any semaphores that are open in the parent process shall also be open in the child process.

        *  The child process shall not inherit any address space memory locks established by the parent  process  via
           calls to mlockall() or mlock().

        *  Memory  mappings created in the parent shall be retained in the child process. MAP_PRIVATE mappings inher‐
           ited from the parent shall also be MAP_PRIVATE mappings in the child, and any modifications to the data in
           these mappings made by the parent prior to calling fork() shall be visible to the child. Any modifications
           to the data in MAP_PRIVATE mappings made by the parent after fork() returns shall be visible only  to  the
           parent.  Modifications  to the data in MAP_PRIVATE mappings made by the child shall be visible only to the
           child.

        *  For the SCHED_FIFO and SCHED_RR scheduling policies, the child process shall inherit the policy and prior‐
           ity settings of the parent process during a fork() function. For other scheduling policies, the policy and
           priority settings on fork() are implementation-defined.

        *  Per-process timers created by the parent shall not be inherited by the child process.

        *  The child process shall have its own copy of the message queue descriptors of the parent. Each of the mes‐
           sage descriptors of the child shall refer to the same open message queue description as the  corresponding
           message descriptor of the parent.

        *  No  asynchronous  input or asynchronous output operations shall be inherited by the child process. Any use
           of asynchronous control blocks created by the parent produces undefined behavior.

        *  A process shall be created with a single thread. If a multi-threaded process calls fork(), the new process
           shall contain a replica of the calling thread and its entire address space, possibly including the  states
           of  mutexes  and other resources. Consequently, to avoid errors, the child process may only execute async-
           signal-safe operations until such time as one of the exec functions is called. Fork handlers may be estab‐
           lished by means of the pthread_atfork() function in order to maintain application invariants across fork()
           calls.

           When the application calls fork() from a signal handler  and  any  of  the  fork  handlers  registered  by
           pthread_atfork() calls a function that is not async-signal-safe, the behavior is undefined.

        *  If the Trace option and the Trace Inherit option are both supported:

           If  the  calling  process  was  being  traced  in  a  trace  stream that had its inheritance policy set to
           POSIX_TRACE_INHERITED, the child process shall be traced into that trace stream,  and  the  child  process
           shall  inherit  the  parent's  mapping  of trace event names to trace event type identifiers. If the trace
           stream  in  which  the  calling  process  was  being  traced   had   its   inheritance   policy   set   to
           POSIX_TRACE_CLOSE_FOR_CHILD, the child process shall not be traced into that trace stream. The inheritance
           policy is set by a call to the posix_trace_attr_setinherited() function.

        *  If the Trace option is supported, but the Trace Inherit option is not supported:

           The child process shall not be traced into any of the trace streams of its parent process.

        *  If  the  Trace  option is supported, the child process of a trace controller process shall not control the
           trace streams controlled by its parent process.

        *  The initial value of the CPU-time clock of the child process shall be set to zero.

        *  The initial value of the CPU-time clock of the single thread of the child process shall be set to zero.

       All other process characteristics defined by POSIX.1‐2008 shall be the same in the parent and child processes.
       The inheritance of process characteristics not defined by POSIX.1‐2008 is unspecified by POSIX.1‐2008.

       After fork(), both the parent and the child processes shall be capable of executing independently  before  ei‐
       ther one terminates.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, fork() shall return 0 to the child process and shall return the process ID of the
       child process to the parent process. Both processes shall continue to execute from the fork() function. Other‐
       wise, −1 shall be returned to the parent process, no child process shall be created, and errno shall be set to
       indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fork() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN The system lacked the necessary resources to create another process, or the system-imposed limit on the
              total number of processes under execution system-wide or by a single  user  {CHILD_MAX}  would  be  ex‐
              ceeded.

       The fork() function may fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient storage space is available.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Many  historical  implementations  have timing windows where a signal sent to a process group (for example, an
       interactive SIGINT) just prior to or during execution of fork() is  delivered  to  the  parent  following  the
       fork()  but not to the child because the fork() code clears the child's set of pending signals. This volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008 does not require, or even permit, this behavior. However, it is pragmatic to expect that problems
       of this nature may continue to exist in implementations that appear to conform to this volume of  POSIX.1‐2008
       and  pass  available verification suites. This behavior is only a consequence of the implementation failing to
       make the interval between signal generation and delivery totally invisible.  From the  application's  perspec‐
       tive,  a  fork() call should appear atomic. A signal that is generated prior to the fork() should be delivered
       prior to the fork().  A signal sent to the process group after the fork() should be delivered to  both  parent
       and  child.  The  implementation may actually initialize internal data structures corresponding to the child's
       set of pending signals to include signals sent to the process group during the fork().  Since the fork()  call
       can be considered as atomic from the application's perspective, the set would be initialized as empty and such
       signals would have arrived after the fork(); see also <signal.h>.

       One  approach  that has been suggested to address the problem of signal inheritance across fork() is to add an
       [EINTR] error, which would be returned when a signal is detected during the call. While this is preferable  to
       losing  signals,  it  was not considered an optimal solution. Although it is not recommended for this purpose,
       such an error would be an allowable extension for an implementation.

       The [ENOMEM] error value is reserved for those implementations that detect and distinguish such  a  condition.
       This  condition  occurs  when an implementation detects that there is not enough memory to create the process.
       This is intended to be returned when [EAGAIN] is inappropriate because there can never be enough  memory  (ei‐
       ther primary or secondary storage) to perform the operation. Since fork() duplicates an existing process, this
       must  be  a  condition where there is sufficient memory for one such process, but not for two. Many historical
       implementations actually return [ENOMEM] due to temporary lack of memory, a case that is  not  generally  dis‐
       tinct from [EAGAIN] from the perspective of a conforming application.

       Part of the reason for including the optional error [ENOMEM] is because the SVID specifies it and it should be
       reserved for the error condition specified there. The condition is not applicable on many implementations.

       IEEE Std 1003.1‐1988  neglected  to  require concurrent execution of the parent and child of fork().  A system
       that single-threads processes was clearly not intended and is considered  an  unacceptable  ``toy  implementa‐
       tion''  of  this  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008.  The only objection anticipated to the phrase ``executing indepen‐
       dently'' is testability, but this assertion should be testable.  Such tests require that both the  parent  and
       child  can  block  on a detectable action of the other, such as a write to a pipe or a signal.  An interactive
       exchange of such actions should be possible for the system  to  conform  to  the  intent  of  this  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008.

       The [EAGAIN] error exists to warn applications that such a condition might occur.  Whether it occurs or not is
       not in any practical sense under the control of the application because the condition is usually a consequence
       of  the  user's use of the system, not of the application's code. Thus, no application can or should rely upon
       its occurrence under any circumstances, nor should the exact semantics of what concept of ``user'' is used  be
       of concern to the application developer.  Validation writers should be cognizant of this limitation.

       There  are  two  reasons  why  POSIX programmers call fork().  One reason is to create a new thread of control
       within the same program (which was originally only possible in POSIX by creating a new process); the other  is
       to  create  a new process running a different program. In the latter case, the call to fork() is soon followed
       by a call to one of the exec functions.

       The general problem with making fork() work in a multi-threaded world is what to do with all of  the  threads.
       There are two alternatives. One is to copy all of the threads into the new process. This causes the programmer
       or  implementation  to  deal with threads that are suspended on system calls or that might be about to execute
       system calls that should not be executed in the new process.  The other alternative is to copy only the thread
       that calls fork().  This creates the difficulty that the state of process-local resources is usually  held  in
       process  memory.  If  a thread that is not calling fork() holds a resource, that resource is never released in
       the child process because the thread whose job it is to release the resource  does  not  exist  in  the  child
       process.

       When a programmer is writing a multi-threaded program, the first described use of fork(), creating new threads
       in  the  same  program, is provided by the pthread_create() function. The fork() function is thus used only to
       run new programs, and the effects of calling functions that require certain  resources  between  the  call  to
       fork() and the call to an exec function are undefined.

       The  addition  of  the  forkall() function to the standard was considered and rejected. The forkall() function
       lets all the threads in the parent be duplicated in the child. This essentially duplicates the  state  of  the
       parent in the child. This allows threads in the child to continue processing and allows locks and the state to
       be  preserved  without explicit pthread_atfork() code. The calling process has to ensure that the threads pro‐
       cessing state that is shared between the parent and child (that is, file descriptors or MAP_SHARED memory) be‐
       haves properly after forkall().  For example, if a thread is reading a file  descriptor  in  the  parent  when
       forkall() is called, then two threads (one in the parent and one in the child) are reading the file descriptor
       after the forkall().  If this is not desired behavior, the parent process has to synchronize with such threads
       before calling forkall().

       While the fork() function is async-signal-safe, there is no way for an implementation to determine whether the
       fork  handlers established by pthread_atfork() are async-signal-safe. The fork handlers may attempt to execute
       portions of the implementation that are not async-signal-safe, such as those that are  protected  by  mutexes,
       leading  to  a  deadlock condition.  It is therefore undefined for the fork handlers to execute functions that
       are not async-signal-safe when fork() is called from a signal handler.

       When forkall() is called, threads, other than the calling thread, that are in functions that can  return  with
       an [EINTR] error may have those functions return [EINTR] if the implementation cannot ensure that the function
       behaves  correctly  in  the  parent and child. In particular, pthread_cond_wait() and pthread_cond_timedwait()
       need to return in order to ensure that the condition has not changed.  These functions can be  awakened  by  a
       spurious condition wakeup rather than returning [EINTR].

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       alarm(),  exec,  fcntl(),  posix_trace_attr_getinherited(), posix_trace_eventid_equal(), pthread_atfork(), se‐
       mop(), signal(), times()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.11, Memory Synchronization, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                FORK(3P)
