FPUTWC(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    FPUTWC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fputwc — put a wide-character code on a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>
       #include <wchar.h>

       wint_t fputwc(wchar_t wc, FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fputwc() function shall write the character corresponding to the wide-character  code  wc  to  the  output
       stream  pointed  to  by  stream,  at  the position indicated by the associated file-position indicator for the
       stream (if defined), and advances the indicator appropriately. If the  file  cannot  support  positioning  re‐
       quests,  or  if  the stream was opened with append mode, the character is appended to the output stream. If an
       error occurs while writing the character, the shift state of the output file is left in an undefined state.

       The last data modification and last file status change timestamps of the file shall be marked for  update  be‐
       tween  the  successful  execution  of  fputwc()  and  the  next successful completion of a call to fflush() or
       fclose() on the same stream or a call to exit() or abort().

       The fputwc() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fputwc() shall return wc.  Otherwise, it shall return WEOF,  the  error  indicator
       for the stream shall be set, and errno shall be set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fputwc() function shall fail if either the stream is unbuffered or data in the stream's buffer needs to be
       written, and:

       EAGAIN The O_NONBLOCK flag is set for the file descriptor underlying stream and the thread would be delayed in
              the write operation.

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying stream is not a valid file descriptor open for writing.

       EFBIG  An attempt was made to write to a file that exceeds the maximum file size or the file size limit of the
              process.

       EFBIG  The  file is a regular file and an attempt was made to write at or beyond the offset maximum associated
              with the corresponding stream.

       EILSEQ The wide-character code wc does not correspond to a valid character.

       EINTR  The write operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no data was transferred.

       EIO    A physical I/O error has occurred, or the process is a member of a background process group  attempting
              to  write  to  its controlling terminal, TOSTOP is set, the calling thread is not blocking SIGTTOU, the
              process is not ignoring SIGTTOU, and the process group of the process is orphaned.  This error may also
              be returned under implementation-defined conditions.

       ENOSPC There was no free space remaining on the device containing the file.

       EPIPE  An attempt is made to write to a pipe or FIFO that is not open for reading by any  process.  A  SIGPIPE
              signal shall also be sent to the thread.

       The fputwc() function may fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient storage space is available.

       ENXIO  A request was made of a nonexistent device, or the request was outside the capabilities of the device.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, ferror(), fopen(), setbuf(), ulimit()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              FPUTWC(3P)
