FREAD(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     FREAD(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fread — binary input

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       size_t fread(void *restrict ptr, size_t size, size_t nitems,
           FILE *restrict stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fread() function shall read into the array pointed to by ptr up to nitems elements whose size is specified
       by size in bytes, from the stream pointed to by stream.  For each object, size calls  shall  be  made  to  the
       fgetc()  function  and  the results stored, in the order read, in an array of unsigned char exactly overlaying
       the object. The file position indicator for the stream (if defined) shall be advanced by the number  of  bytes
       successfully  read.  If  an error occurs, the resulting value of the file position indicator for the stream is
       unspecified. If a partial element is read, its value is unspecified.

       The fread() function may mark the last data access timestamp of the file associated with  stream  for  update.
       The  last  data  access  timestamp  shall  be  marked for update by the first successful execution of fgetc(),
       fgets(), fread(), fscanf(), getc(), getchar(), getdelim(), getline(), gets(), or scanf() using stream that re‐
       turns data not supplied by a prior call to ungetc().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fread() shall return the number of elements successfully read which is  less  than
       nitems  only if a read error or end-of-file is encountered. If size or nitems is 0, fread() shall return 0 and
       the contents of the array and the state of the stream remain unchanged. Otherwise, if a read error occurs, the
       error indicator for the stream shall be set, and errno shall be set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       Refer to fgetc().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Reading from a Stream
       The following example reads a single element from the fp stream into the array pointed to by buf.

           #include <stdio.h>
           ...
           size_t elements_read;
           char buf[100];
           FILE *fp;
           ...
           elements_read = fread(buf, sizeof(buf), 1, fp);
           ...

       If a read error occurs, elements_read will be zero but the number of bytes read from the stream could be  any‐
       thing from zero to sizeof(buf)−1.

       The following example reads multiple single-byte elements from the fp stream into the array pointed to by buf.

           #include <stdio.h>
           ...
           size_t bytes_read;
           char buf[100];
           FILE *fp;
           ...
           bytes_read = fread(buf, 1, sizeof(buf), fp);
           ...

       If a read error occurs, bytes_read will contain the number of bytes read from the stream.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  ferror()  or  feof()  functions must be used to distinguish between an error condition and an end-of-file
       condition.

       Because of possible differences in element length and byte ordering, files written using fwrite() are applica‐
       tion-dependent, and possibly cannot be read using fread() by a different application or by the  same  applica‐
       tion on a different processor.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, feof(), ferror(), fgetc(), fopen(), fscanf(), getc(), gets()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               FREAD(3P)
