FREXP(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     FREXP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       frexp, frexpf, frexpl — extract mantissa and exponent from a double precision number

SYNOPSIS
       #include <math.h>

       double frexp(double num, int *exp);
       float frexpf(float num, int *exp);
       long double frexpl(long double num, int *exp);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall break a floating-point number num into a normalized fraction and an integral power of 2.
       The integer exponent shall be stored in the int object pointed to by exp.

RETURN VALUE
       For finite arguments, these functions shall return the value x, such that x has a magnitude  in  the  interval
       [½,1) or 0, and num equals x times 2 raised to the power *exp.

       If num is NaN, a NaN shall be returned, and the value of *exp is unspecified.

       If num is ±0, ±0 shall be returned, and the value of *exp shall be 0.

       If num is ±Inf, num shall be returned, and the value of *exp is unspecified.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       isnan(), ldexp(), modf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <math.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               FREXP(3P)
