FSEEK(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     FSEEK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fseek, fseeko — reposition a file-position indicator in a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int fseek(FILE *stream, long offset, int whence);
       int fseeko(FILE *stream, off_t offset, int whence);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fseek() function shall set the file-position indicator for the stream pointed to by stream.  If a read  or
       write error occurs, the error indicator for the stream shall be set and fseek() fails.

       The  new position, measured in bytes from the beginning of the file, shall be obtained by adding offset to the
       position specified by whence.  The specified point is the beginning of the  file  for  SEEK_SET,  the  current
       value of the file-position indicator for SEEK_CUR, or end-of-file for SEEK_END.

       If the stream is to be used with wide-character input/output functions, the application shall ensure that off‐
       set is either 0 or a value returned by an earlier call to ftell() on the same stream and whence is SEEK_SET.

       A  successful  call  to  fseek()  shall clear the end-of-file indicator for the stream and undo any effects of
       ungetc() and ungetwc() on the same stream. After an fseek() call, the next operation on an update  stream  may
       be either input or output.

       If the most recent operation, other than ftell(), on a given stream is fflush(), the file offset in the under‐
       lying open file description shall be adjusted to reflect the location specified by fseek().

       The  fseek() function shall allow the file-position indicator to be set beyond the end of existing data in the
       file. If data is later written at this point, subsequent reads of data in the gap shall return bytes with  the
       value 0 until data is actually written into the gap.

       The behavior of fseek() on devices which are incapable of seeking is implementation-defined.  The value of the
       file offset associated with such a device is undefined.

       If  the  stream is writable and buffered data had not been written to the underlying file, fseek() shall cause
       the unwritten data to be written to the file and shall mark the last data modification and  last  file  status
       change timestamps of the file for update.

       In  a  locale  with state-dependent encoding, whether fseek() restores the stream's shift state is implementa‐
       tion-defined.

       The fseeko() function shall be equivalent to the fseek() function except that the offset argument is  of  type
       off_t.

RETURN VALUE
       The fseek() and fseeko() functions shall return 0 if they succeed.

       Otherwise, they shall return −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The  fseek()  and  fseeko()  functions  shall  fail if, either the stream is unbuffered or the stream's buffer
       needed to be flushed, and the call to fseek() or fseeko() causes an underlying lseek() or write()  to  be  in‐
       voked, and:

       EAGAIN The  O_NONBLOCK flag is set for the file descriptor and the thread would be delayed in the write opera‐
              tion.

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying the stream file is not open for writing or the stream's buffer needed to
              be flushed and the file is not open.

       EFBIG  An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the maximum file size.

       EFBIG  An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the file size limit of the process.

       EFBIG  The file is a regular file and an attempt was made to write at or beyond the offset maximum  associated
              with the corresponding stream.

       EINTR  The write operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no data was transferred.

       EINVAL The whence argument is invalid. The resulting file-position indicator would be set to a negative value.

       EIO    A  physical I/O error has occurred, or the process is a member of a background process group attempting
              to perform a write() to its controlling terminal, TOSTOP is set, the calling  thread  is  not  blocking
              SIGTTOU,  the  process is not ignoring SIGTTOU, and the process group of the process is orphaned.  This
              error may also be returned under implementation-defined conditions.

       ENOSPC There was no free space remaining on the device containing the file.

       EOVERFLOW
              For fseek(), the resulting file offset would be a value which cannot be represented correctly in an ob‐
              ject of type long.

       EOVERFLOW
              For fseeko(), the resulting file offset would be a value which cannot be represented  correctly  in  an
              object of type off_t.

       EPIPE  An  attempt  was made to write to a pipe or FIFO that is not open for reading by any process; a SIGPIPE
              signal shall also be sent to the thread.

       ESPIPE The file descriptor underlying stream is associated with a pipe, FIFO, or socket.

       The fseek() and fseeko() functions may fail if:

       ENXIO  A request was made of a nonexistent device, or the request was outside the capabilities of the device.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fopen(), fsetpos(),  ftell(),  getrlimit(),  lseek(),  rewind(),  ulimit(),
       ungetc(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               FSEEK(3P)
