FSETPOS(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   FSETPOS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fsetpos — set current file position

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int fsetpos(FILE *stream, const fpos_t *pos);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fsetpos() function shall set the file position and state indicators for the stream pointed  to  by  stream
       according to the value of the object pointed to by pos, which the application shall ensure is a value obtained
       from an earlier call to fgetpos() on the same stream. If a read or write error occurs, the error indicator for
       the stream shall be set and fsetpos() fails.

       A  successful call to the fsetpos() function shall clear the end-of-file indicator for the stream and undo any
       effects of ungetc() on the same stream. After an fsetpos() call, the next operation on an update stream may be
       either input or output.

       The behavior of fsetpos() on devices which are incapable of seeking is implementation-defined.  The  value  of
       the file offset associated with such a device is undefined.

       The fsetpos() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       The  fsetpos() function shall return 0 if it succeeds; otherwise, it shall return a non-zero value and set er‐
       rno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fsetpos() function shall fail if, either the stream is unbuffered or the  stream's  buffer  needed  to  be
       flushed, and the call to fsetpos() causes an underlying lseek() or write() to be invoked, and:

       EAGAIN The  O_NONBLOCK flag is set for the file descriptor and the thread would be delayed in the write opera‐
              tion.

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying the stream file is not open for writing or the stream's buffer needed to
              be flushed and the file is not open.

       EFBIG  An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the maximum file size.

       EFBIG  An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the file size limit of the process.

       EFBIG  The file is a regular file and an attempt was made to write at or beyond the offset maximum  associated
              with the corresponding stream.

       EINTR  The write operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no data was transferred.

       EIO    A  physical I/O error has occurred, or the process is a member of a background process group attempting
              to perform a write() to its controlling terminal, TOSTOP is set, the calling  thread  is  not  blocking
              SIGTTOU,  the  process is not ignoring SIGTTOU, and the process group of the process is orphaned.  This
              error may also be returned under implementation-defined conditions.

       ENOSPC There was no free space remaining on the device containing the file.

       EPIPE  An attempt was made to write to a pipe or FIFO that is not open for reading by any process;  a  SIGPIPE
              signal shall also be sent to the thread.

       ESPIPE The file descriptor underlying stream is associated with a pipe, FIFO, or socket.

       The fsetpos() function may fail if:

       ENXIO  A request was made of a nonexistent device, or the request was outside the capabilities of the device.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fopen(), ftell(), lseek(), rewind(), ungetc(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             FSETPOS(3P)
