FSYNC(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     FSYNC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fsync — synchronize changes to a file

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int fsync(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The  fsync() function shall request that all data for the open file descriptor named by fildes is to be trans‐
       ferred to the storage device associated with the file described by fildes.  The nature of the transfer is  im‐
       plementation-defined.  The fsync() function shall not return until the system has completed that action or un‐
       til an error is detected.

       If _POSIX_SYNCHRONIZED_IO is defined, the fsync() function shall force all currently queued I/O operations as‐
       sociated with the file indicated by file descriptor fildes to the synchronized I/O completion state.  All  I/O
       operations shall be completed as defined for synchronized I/O file integrity completion.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, fsync() shall return 0. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate
       the error. If the fsync() function fails, outstanding I/O operations are not  guaranteed  to  have  been  com‐
       pleted.

ERRORS
       The fsync() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid descriptor.

       EINTR  The fsync() function was interrupted by a signal.

       EINVAL The fildes argument does not refer to a file on which this operation is possible.

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       In the event that any of the queued I/O operations fail, fsync() shall return the error conditions defined for
       read() and write().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  fsync()  function should be used by programs which require modifications to a file to be completed before
       continuing; for example, a program which contains a simple transaction facility might use it  to  ensure  that
       all modifications to a file or files caused by a transaction are recorded.

RATIONALE
       The  fsync()  function is intended to force a physical write of data from the buffer cache, and to assure that
       after a system crash or other failure that all data up to the time of the fsync()  call  is  recorded  on  the
       disk.  Since  the concepts of ``buffer cache'', ``system crash'', ``physical write'', and ``non-volatile stor‐
       age'' are not defined here, the wording has to be more abstract.

       If _POSIX_SYNCHRONIZED_IO is not defined, the wording relies heavily on the conformance document to  tell  the
       user  what can be expected from the system. It is explicitly intended that a null implementation is permitted.
       This could be valid in the case where the system cannot assure non-volatile storage under any circumstances or
       when the system is highly fault-tolerant and the functionality is not required. In the middle  ground  between
       these  extremes,  fsync()  might  or might not actually cause data to be written where it is safe from a power
       failure. The conformance document should identify at least that one configuration exists (and  how  to  obtain
       that  configuration)  where  this  can  be assured for at least some files that the user can select to use for
       critical data. It is not intended that an exhaustive list is required, but rather  sufficient  information  is
       provided so that if critical data needs to be saved, the user can determine how the system is to be configured
       to allow the data to be written to non-volatile storage.

       It is reasonable to assert that the key aspects of fsync() are unreasonable to test in a test suite. That does
       not  make the function any less valuable, just more difficult to test. A formal conformance test should proba‐
       bly force a system crash (power shutdown) during the test for this condition, but it needs to be done in  such
       a  way  that  automated testing does not require this to be done except when a formal record of the results is
       being made. It would also not be unreasonable to omit testing for fsync(), allowing it  to  be  treated  as  a
       quality-of-implementation issue.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       sync()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               FSYNC(3P)
