FTELL(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     FTELL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ftell, ftello — return a file offset in a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       long ftell(FILE *stream);
       off_t ftello(FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The ftell() function shall obtain the current value of the file-position indicator for the stream  pointed  to
       by stream.

       The ftell() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       The  ftello()  function  shall be equivalent to ftell(), except that the return value is of type off_t and the
       ftello() function may change the setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, ftell() and ftello() shall return the current value of the file-position indicator
       for the stream measured in bytes from the beginning of the file.

       Otherwise, ftell() and ftello() shall return −1, and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The ftell() and ftello() functions shall fail if:

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying stream is not an open file descriptor.

       EOVERFLOW
              For ftell(), the current file offset cannot be represented correctly in an object of type long.

       EOVERFLOW
              For ftello(), the current file offset cannot be represented correctly in an object of type off_t.

       ESPIPE The file descriptor underlying stream is associated with a pipe, FIFO, or socket.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fgetpos(), fopen(), fseek(), lseek()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               FTELL(3P)
