FTRUNCATE(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 FTRUNCATE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ftruncate — truncate a file to a specified length

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int ftruncate(int fildes, off_t length);

DESCRIPTION
       If fildes is not a valid file descriptor open for writing, the ftruncate() function shall fail.

       If  fildes refers to a regular file, the ftruncate() function shall cause the size of the file to be truncated
       to length.  If the size of the file previously exceeded length, the extra data shall no longer be available to
       reads on the file. If the file previously was smaller than this size, ftruncate() shall increase the  size  of
       the  file.  If the file size is increased, the extended area shall appear as if it were zero-filled. The value
       of the seek pointer shall not be modified by a call to ftruncate().

       Upon successful completion, if fildes refers to a regular file, ftruncate() shall mark  for  update  the  last
       data  modification  and last file status change timestamps of the file and the S_ISUID and S_ISGID bits of the
       file mode may be cleared. If the ftruncate() function is unsuccessful, the file is unaffected.

       If the request would cause the file size to exceed the soft file size limit for the process, the request shall
       fail and the implementation shall generate the SIGXFSZ signal for the thread.

       If fildes refers to a directory, ftruncate() shall fail.

       If fildes refers to any other file type, except a shared memory object, the result is unspecified.

       If fildes refers to a shared memory object, ftruncate() shall set the size of  the  shared  memory  object  to
       length.

       If  the  effect  of  ftruncate() is to decrease the size of a memory mapped file or a shared memory object and
       whole pages beyond the new end were previously mapped, then the whole pages beyond the new end shall  be  dis‐
       carded.

       References to discarded pages shall result in the generation of a SIGBUS signal.

       If  the  effect  of ftruncate() is to increase the size of a memory object, it is unspecified whether the con‐
       tents of any mapped pages between the old end-of-file and the new are flushed to the underlying object.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, ftruncate() shall return 0; otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       The ftruncate() function shall fail if:

       EINTR  A signal was caught during execution.

       EINVAL The length argument was less than 0.

       EFBIG or EINVAL
              The length argument was greater than the maximum file size.

       EFBIG  The file is a regular file and length is greater than the offset maximum established in the  open  file
              description associated with fildes.

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to a file system.

       EBADF or EINVAL
              The fildes argument is not a file descriptor open for writing.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       open(), truncate()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           FTRUNCATE(3P)
