FTW(3P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       FTW(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ftw — traverse (walk) a file tree

SYNOPSIS
       #include <ftw.h>

       int ftw(const char *path, int (*fn)(const char *,
           const struct stat *ptr, int flag), int ndirs);

DESCRIPTION
       The  ftw()  function shall recursively descend the directory hierarchy rooted in path.  For each object in the
       hierarchy, ftw() shall call the function pointed to by fn, passing it a pointer to a null-terminated character
       string containing the name of the object, a pointer to a stat structure containing information about  the  ob‐
       ject,  filled  in  as if stat() or lstat() had been called to retrieve the information. Possible values of the
       integer, defined in the <ftw.h> header, are:

       FTW_D     For a directory.

       FTW_DNR   For a directory that cannot be read.

       FTW_F     For a non-directory file.

       FTW_SL    For a symbolic link (but see also FTW_NS below).

       FTW_NS    For an object other than a symbolic link on which stat() could not successfully be executed. If  the
                 object is a symbolic link and stat() failed, it is unspecified whether ftw() passes FTW_SL or FTW_NS
                 to the user-supplied function.

       If the integer is FTW_DNR, descendants of that directory shall not be processed. If the integer is FTW_NS, the
       stat  structure contains undefined values. An example of an object that would cause FTW_NS to be passed to the
       function pointed to by fn would be a file in a directory with read but without execute (search) permission.

       The ftw() function shall visit a directory before visiting any of its descendants.

       The ftw() function shall use at most one file descriptor for each level in the tree.

       The argument ndirs should be in the range [1,{OPEN_MAX}].

       The tree traversal shall continue until either the tree is exhausted, an invocation of fn returns  a  non-zero
       value, or some error, other than [EACCES], is detected within ftw().

       The ndirs argument shall specify the maximum number of directory streams or file descriptors or both available
       for  use  by ftw() while traversing the tree. When ftw() returns it shall close any directory streams and file
       descriptors it uses not counting any opened by the application-supplied fn function.

       The results are unspecified if the application-supplied fn function does not preserve the current working  di‐
       rectory.

       The ftw() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       If  the  tree  is  exhausted, ftw() shall return 0. If the function pointed to by fn returns a non-zero value,
       ftw() shall stop its tree traversal and return whatever value was returned by the function pointed to  by  fn.
       If ftw() detects an error, it shall return −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

       If  ftw()  encounters  an error other than [EACCES] (see FTW_DNR and FTW_NS above), it shall return −1 and set
       errno to indicate the error. The external variable errno may contain any error value that is possible  when  a
       directory is opened or when one of the stat functions is executed on a directory or file.

ERRORS
       The ftw() function shall fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied for any component of path or read permission is denied for path.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component of path names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a direc‐
              tory.

       EOVERFLOW
              A field in the stat structure cannot be represented correctly in the  current  programming  environment
              for one or more files found in the file hierarchy.

       The ftw() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the ndirs argument is invalid.

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The  length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       In addition, if the function pointed to by fn encounters system errors, errno may be set accordingly.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Walking a Directory Structure
       The following example walks the current directory structure, calling the fn function for every  directory  en‐
       try, using at most 10 file descriptors:

           #include <ftw.h>
           ...
           if (ftw(".", fn, 10) != 0) {
               perror("ftw"); exit(2);
           }

APPLICATION USAGE
       The ftw() function may allocate dynamic storage during its operation. If ftw() is forcibly terminated, such as
       by  longjmp()  or  siglongjmp() being executed by the function pointed to by fn or an interrupt routine, ftw()
       does not have a chance to free that storage, so it remains permanently allocated. A safe way to handle  inter‐
       rupts  is  to store the fact that an interrupt has occurred, and arrange to have the function pointed to by fn
       return a non-zero value at its next invocation.

       Applications should use the nftw() function instead of the obsolescent ftw() function.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The ftw() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       fdopendir(), fstatat(), longjmp(), nftw(), siglongjmp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <ftw.h>, <sys_stat.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 FTW(3P)
