FUSER(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     FUSER(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fuser — list process IDs of all processes that have one or more files open

SYNOPSIS
       fuser [−cfu] file...

DESCRIPTION
       The fuser utility shall write to standard output the process IDs of processes running on the local system that
       have one or more named files open.  For block special devices, all processes using any file on that device are
       listed.

       The  fuser  utility  shall write to standard error additional information about the named files indicating how
       the file is being used.

       Any output for processes running on remote systems that have a named file open is unspecified.

       A user may need appropriate privileges to invoke the fuser utility.

OPTIONS
       The fuser utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −c        The file is treated as a mount point and the utility shall report on any files open in the file sys‐
                 tem.

       −f        The report shall be only for the named files.

       −u        The  user  name, in parentheses, associated with each process ID written to standard output shall be
                 written to standard error.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname on which the file or file system is to be reported.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       The user database.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of fuser:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The fuser utility shall write the process ID for each process using each file given as an operand to  standard
       output in the following format:

           "%d", <process_id>

STDERR
       The fuser utility shall write diagnostic messages to standard error.

       The fuser utility also shall write the following to standard error:

        *  The pathname of each named file is written followed immediately by a <colon>.

        *  For  each  process  ID written to standard output, the character 'c' shall be written to standard error if
           the process is using the file as its current directory and the character 'r' shall be written to  standard
           error  if  the process is using the file as its root directory. Implementations may write other alphabetic
           characters to indicate other uses of files.

        *  When the −u option is specified, characters indicating the use of the file shall be  followed  immediately
           by  the user name, in parentheses, corresponding to the real user ID of the process. If the user name can‐
           not be resolved from the real user ID of the process, the real user ID of the process shall be written in‐
           stead of the user name.

       When standard output and standard error are directed to the same file, the output shall be interleaved so that
       the filename appears at the start of each line, followed by the process ID and characters indicating  the  use
       of  the  file.  Then, if the −u option is specified, the user name or user ID for each process using that file
       shall be written.

       A <newline> shall be written to standard error after the last output described above for each file operand.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       The command:

           fuser −fu .

       writes to standard output the process IDs of processes that are using the  current  directory  and  writes  to
       standard error an indication of how those processes are using the directory and the user names associated with
       the processes that are using the current directory.

           fuser −c <mount point>

       writes  to  standard  output  the process IDs of processes that are using any file in the file system which is
       mounted on <mount point> and writes to standard error an indication of  how  those  processes  are  using  the
       files.

           fuser <mount point>

       writes to standard output the process IDs of processes that are using the file which is named by <mount point>
       and writes to standard error an indication of how those processes are using the file.

           fuser <block device>

       writes to standard output the process IDs of processes that are using any file which is on the device named by
       <block device> and writes to standard error an indication of how those processes are using the file.

           fuser −f <block device>

       writes  to  standard  output  the  process  IDs of processes that are using the file <block device> itself and
       writes to standard error an indication of how those processes are using the file.

RATIONALE
       The definition of the fuser utility follows existing practice.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               FUSER(1P)
