FUTIMENS(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  FUTIMENS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       futimens, utimensat, utimes — set file access and modification times

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/stat.h>

       int futimens(int fd, const struct timespec times[2]);
       int utimensat(int fd, const char *path, const struct timespec times[2],
           int flag);

       #include <sys/time.h>

       int utimes(const char *path, const struct timeval times[2]);

DESCRIPTION
       The  futimens()  and utimensat() functions shall set the access and modification times of a file to the values
       of the times argument. The futimens() function changes the times of the file associated with the file descrip‐
       tor fd.  The utimensat() function changes the times of the file pointed to by the path argument,  relative  to
       the  directory  associated  with the file descriptor fd.  Both functions allow time specifications accurate to
       the nanosecond.

       For futimens() and utimensat(), the times argument is an array of two timespec  structures.  The  first  array
       member represents the date and time of last access, and the second member represents the date and time of last
       modification. The times in the timespec structure are measured in seconds and nanoseconds since the Epoch. The
       file's  relevant timestamp shall be set to the greatest value supported by the file system that is not greater
       than the specified time.

       If the tv_nsec field of a timespec structure has the special value UTIME_NOW, the  file's  relevant  timestamp
       shall  be set to the greatest value supported by the file system that is not greater than the current time. If
       the tv_nsec field has the special value UTIME_OMIT, the file's relevant timestamp shall not be changed. In ei‐
       ther case, the tv_sec field shall be ignored.

       If the times argument is a null pointer, both the access and modification  timestamps  shall  be  set  to  the
       greatest  value  supported  by  the  file  system that is not greater than the current time. If utimensat() is
       passed a relative path in the path argument, the file to be used shall be relative to the directory associated
       with the file descriptor fd instead of the current working directory. If the file descriptor was opened  with‐
       out  O_SEARCH, the function shall check whether directory searches are permitted using the current permissions
       of the directory underlying the file descriptor. If the file descriptor was opened with O_SEARCH, the function
       shall not perform the check.

       If utimensat() is passed the special value AT_FDCWD in the fd parameter, the current working  directory  shall
       be used.

       Only  a process with the effective user ID equal to the user ID of the file, or with write access to the file,
       or with appropriate privileges may use futimens() or utimensat() with a null pointer as the times argument  or
       with  both  tv_nsec fields set to the special value UTIME_NOW. Only a process with the effective user ID equal
       to the user ID of the file or with appropriate privileges may use futimens() or utimensat()  with  a  non-null
       times  argument  that does not have both tv_nsec fields set to UTIME_NOW and does not have both tv_nsec fields
       set to UTIME_OMIT. If both tv_nsec fields are set to UTIME_OMIT, no ownership or permissions  check  shall  be
       performed for the file, but other error conditions may still be detected (including [EACCES] errors related to
       the path prefix).

       Values  for  the flag argument of utimensat() are constructed by a bitwise-inclusive OR of flags from the fol‐
       lowing list, defined in <fcntl.h>:

       AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW
             If path names a symbolic link, then the access and modification times of the symbolic link are changed.

       Upon completion, futimens() and utimensat() shall mark the last file status change timestamp for update.

       The utimes() function shall be equivalent to the utimensat() function with the special value AT_FDCWD  as  the
       fd  argument  and  the flag argument set to zero, except that the times argument is a timeval structure rather
       than a timespec structure, and accuracy is only to the microsecond, not nanosecond, and rounding  towards  the
       nearest second may occur.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  these functions shall return 0.  Otherwise, these functions shall return −1 and
       set errno to indicate the error. If −1 is returned, the file times shall not be affected.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EACCES The times argument is a null pointer, or both tv_nsec values are UTIME_NOW, and the effective  user  ID
              of the process does not match the owner of the file and write access is denied.

       EINVAL Either  of  the  times  argument  structures  specified  a tv_nsec value that was neither UTIME_NOW nor
              UTIME_OMIT, and was a value less than zero or greater than or equal to 1000 million.

       EINVAL A new file timestamp would be a value whose tv_sec component is not a value supported by the file  sys‐
              tem.

       EPERM  The  times argument is not a null pointer, does not have both tv_nsec fields set to UTIME_NOW, does not
              have both tv_nsec fields set to UTIME_OMIT, the calling process' effective user ID does not  match  the
              owner of the file, and the calling process does not have appropriate privileges.

       EROFS  The file system containing the file is read-only.

       The futimens() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fd argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       The utimensat() function shall fail if:

       EACCES fd was not opened with O_SEARCH and the permissions of the directory underlying fd do not permit direc‐
              tory searches.

       EBADF  The path argument does not specify an absolute path and the fd argument is neither AT_FDCWD nor a valid
              file descriptor open for reading or searching.

       ENOTDIR
              The  path  argument is not an absolute path and fd is a file descriptor associated with a non-directory
              file.

       The utimensat() and utimes() functions shall fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied by a component of the path prefix.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A component of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a  symbolic  link
              to  a  directory, or the path argument contains at least one non-<slash> character and ends with one or
              more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname component names an existing file that is neither
              a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       The utimensat() and utimes() functions may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The utimensat() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the flag argument is not valid.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  purpose  of  the  utimensat() function is to set the access and modification time of files in directories
       other than the current working directory without exposure to race conditions. Any part of the path of  a  file
       could  be  changed in parallel to a call to utimes(), resulting in unspecified behavior. By opening a file de‐
       scriptor for the target directory and using the utimensat() function it can be  guaranteed  that  the  changed
       file is located relative to the desired directory.

       The  standard  developers considered including a special case for the permissions required by utimensat() when
       one tv_nsec field is UTIME_NOW and the other is UTIME_OMIT. One possibility would be to include this  case  in
       with  the  cases  where times is a null pointer or both fields are UTIME_NOW, where the call is allowed if the
       process has write permission for the file. However, associating write permission with an update  to  just  the
       last data access timestamp (which is normally updated by read()) did not seem appropriate. The other possibil‐
       ity would be to specify that this one case is allowed if the process has read permission, but this was felt to
       be too great a departure from the utime() and utimes() functions on which utimensat() is based. If an applica‐
       tion  needs  to set the last data access timestamp to the current time for a file on which it has read permis‐
       sion but is not the owner, it can do so by opening the file, reading one or more bytes (or reading a directory
       entry, if the file is a directory), and then closing it.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       read(), utime()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <fcntl.h>, <sys_stat.h>, <sys_time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            FUTIMENS(3P)
