FWIDE(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     FWIDE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fwide — set stream orientation

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>
       #include <wchar.h>

       int fwide(FILE *stream, int mode);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fwide() function shall determine the orientation of the stream pointed to by stream.  If mode  is  greater
       than  zero, the function first attempts to make the stream wide-oriented. If mode is less than zero, the func‐
       tion first attempts to make the stream byte-oriented. Otherwise, mode is zero and the function does not  alter
       the orientation of the stream.

       If the orientation of the stream has already been determined, fwide() shall not change it.

       The fwide() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       Since  no  return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application wishing to check for error situations
       should set errno to 0, then call fwide(), then check errno, and if it is non-zero, assume  an  error  has  oc‐
       curred.

RETURN VALUE
       The  fwide()  function shall return a value greater than zero if, after the call, the stream has wide-orienta‐
       tion, a value less than zero if the stream has byte-orientation, or zero if the stream has no orientation.

ERRORS
       The fwide() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The stream argument is not a valid stream.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       A call to fwide() with mode set to zero can be used to determine the current orientation of a stream.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               FWIDE(3P)
