FWRITE(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    FWRITE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fwrite — binary output

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       size_t fwrite(const void *restrict ptr, size_t size, size_t nitems,
           FILE *restrict stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The fwrite() function shall write, from the array pointed to by ptr, up to nitems elements whose size is spec‐
       ified by size, to the stream pointed to by stream.  For each object, size calls shall be made to  the  fputc()
       function, taking the values (in order) from an array of unsigned char exactly overlaying the object. The file-
       position  indicator for the stream (if defined) shall be advanced by the number of bytes successfully written.
       If an error occurs, the resulting value of the file-position indicator for the stream is unspecified.

       The last data modification and last file status change timestamps of the file shall be marked for  update  be‐
       tween  the  successful  execution  of  fwrite()  and  the  next successful completion of a call to fflush() or
       fclose() on the same stream, or a call to exit() or abort().

RETURN VALUE
       The fwrite() function shall return the number of elements successfully written, which may be less than  nitems
       if  a  write error is encountered. If size or nitems is 0, fwrite() shall return 0 and the state of the stream
       remains unchanged. Otherwise, if a write error occurs, the error indicator for the stream shall  be  set,  and
       errno shall be set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       Refer to fputc().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Because of possible differences in element length and byte ordering, files written using fwrite() are applica‐
       tion-dependent,  and  possibly cannot be read using fread() by a different application or by the same applica‐
       tion on a different processor.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, ferror(), fopen(), fprintf(), putc(), puts(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              FWRITE(3P)
