GETENV(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    GETENV(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getenv — get value of an environment variable

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       char *getenv(const char *name);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The getenv() function shall search the environment of the calling process (see the Base Definitions volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008,  Chapter  8,  Environment Variables) for the environment variable name if it exists and return a
       pointer to the value of the environment variable. If the specified environment variable  cannot  be  found,  a
       null  pointer shall be returned. The application shall ensure that it does not modify the string pointed to by
       the getenv() function.

       The returned string pointer might be invalidated or the string content might be overwritten  by  a  subsequent
       call to getenv(), setenv(), unsetenv(), or (if supported) putenv() but they shall not be affected by a call to
       any other function in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

       The getenv() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, getenv() shall return a pointer to a string containing the value for the specified
       name.   If  the specified name cannot be found in the environment of the calling process, a null pointer shall
       be returned.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Getting the Value of an Environment Variable
       The following example gets the value of the HOME environment variable.

           #include <stdlib.h>
           ...
           const char *name = "HOME";
           char *value;

           value = getenv(name);

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The clearenv() function was considered but rejected. The putenv() function has now been included for alignment
       with the Single UNIX Specification.

       The getenv() function is inherently not thread-safe because it returns a value pointing to static data.

       Conforming applications are required not to directly modify the pointers to which environ points, but  to  use
       only  the  setenv(),  unsetenv(),  and  putenv() functions, or assignment to environ itself, to manipulate the
       process environment. This constraint allows the implementation to properly manage  the  memory  it  allocates.
       This  enables  the  implementation  to free any space it has allocated to strings (and perhaps the pointers to
       them) stored in environ when unsetenv() is called. A C runtime start-up procedure (that which  invokes  main()
       and  perhaps  initializes  environ) can also initialize a flag indicating that none of the environment has yet
       been copied to allocated storage, or that the separate table has not yet been initialized. If the  application
       switches  to a complete new environment by assigning a new value to environ, this can be detected by getenv(),
       setenv(), unsetenv(), or putenv() and the implementation can at that point reinitialize based on the new envi‐
       ronment. (This may include copying the environment strings into a new array and assigning environ to point  to
       it.)

       In  fact, for higher performance of getenv(), implementations that do not provide putenv() could also maintain
       a separate copy of the environment in a data structure that could be searched much more quickly  (such  as  an
       indexed  hash table, or a binary tree), and update both it and the linear list at environ when setenv() or un‐
       setenv() is invoked. On implementations that do provide putenv(), such a copy might still  be  worthwhile  but
       would  need  to  allow  for  the fact that applications can directly modify the content of environment strings
       added with putenv().  For example, if an environment string found by searching the copy is one that was  added
       using putenv(), the implementation would need to check that the string in environ still has the same name (and
       value,  if  the  copy  includes  values), and whenever searching the copy produces no match the implementation
       would then need to search each environment string in environ that was added using putenv() in case any of them
       have changed their names and now match. Thus, each use of putenv() to add to the environment would reduce  the
       speed advantage of having the copy.

       Performance  of  getenv() can be important for applications which have large numbers of environment variables.
       Typically, applications like this use the environment as a resource database of user-configurable  parameters.
       The  fact  that  these variables are in the user's shell environment usually means that any other program that
       uses environment variables (such as ls, which attempts to use COLUMNS), or really almost  any  utility  (LANG,
       LC_ALL, and so on) is similarly slowed down by the linear search through the variables.

       An implementation that maintains separate data structures, or even one that manages the memory it consumes, is
       not  currently  required  as  it  was  thought it would reduce consensus among implementors who do not want to
       change their historical implementations.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       A future version may add one or more functions to access and modify the environment in a thread-safe manner.

SEE ALSO
       exec, putenv(), setenv(), unsetenv()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              GETENV(3P)
