GETITIMER(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 GETITIMER(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getitimer, setitimer — get and set value of interval timer

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/time.h>

       int getitimer(int which, struct itimerval *value);
       int setitimer(int which, const struct itimerval *restrict value,
           struct itimerval *restrict ovalue);

DESCRIPTION
       The  getitimer()  function  shall  store  the current value of the timer specified by which into the structure
       pointed to by value.  The setitimer() function shall set the timer specified by which to the  value  specified
       in  the  structure  pointed  to by value, and if ovalue is not a null pointer, store the previous value of the
       timer in the structure pointed to by ovalue.

       A timer value is defined by the itimerval structure, specified in <sys/time.h>.  If it_value is  non-zero,  it
       shall indicate the time to the next timer expiration.  If it_interval is non-zero, it shall specify a value to
       be  used in reloading it_value when the timer expires. Setting it_value to 0 shall disable a timer, regardless
       of the value of it_interval.  Setting it_interval to 0 shall disable a timer after its next expiration (assum‐
       ing it_value is non-zero).

       Implementations may place limitations on the granularity of timer values. For each interval timer, if the  re‐
       quested  timer  value  requires  a  finer granularity than the implementation supports, the actual timer value
       shall be rounded up to the next supported value.

       An XSI-conforming implementation provides each process with at least three interval timers,  which  are  indi‐
       cated by the which argument:

       ITIMER_PROF   Decrements both in process virtual time and when the system is running on behalf of the process.
                     It  is  designed  to  be used by interpreters in statistically profiling the execution of inter‐
                     preted programs. Each time the ITIMER_PROF timer expires, the SIGPROF signal is delivered.

       ITIMER_REAL   Decrements in real time. A SIGALRM signal is delivered when this timer expires.

       ITIMER_VIRTUAL
                     Decrements in process virtual time. It runs only when the process is executing. A SIGVTALRM sig‐
                     nal is delivered when it expires.

       The interaction between setitimer() and alarm() or sleep() is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, getitimer() or setitimer() shall return 0; otherwise, −1 shall be returned and er‐
       rno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The setitimer() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value argument is not in canonical form. (In canonical form, the number of microseconds is  a  non-
              negative integer less than 1000000 and the number of seconds is a non-negative integer.)

       The getitimer() and setitimer() functions may fail if:

       EINVAL The which argument is not recognized.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Applications  should  use  the  timer_gettime()  and  timer_settime()  functions  instead  of  the obsolescent
       getitimer() and setitimer() functions, respectively.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The getitimer() and setitimer() functions may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       alarm(), exec, sleep(), timer_getoverrun()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>, <sys_time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           GETITIMER(3P)
