GETLOGIN(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  GETLOGIN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getlogin, getlogin_r — get login name

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       char *getlogin(void);
       int getlogin_r(char *name, size_t namesize);

DESCRIPTION
       The  getlogin()  function  shall return a pointer to a string containing the user name associated by the login
       activity with the controlling terminal of the current process. If getlogin() returns a non-null pointer,  then
       that  pointer points to the name that the user logged in under, even if there are several login names with the
       same user ID.

       The getlogin() function need not be thread-safe.

       The getlogin_r() function shall put the name associated by the login activity with the controlling terminal of
       the current process in the character array pointed to by name.  The array  is  namesize  characters  long  and
       should  have space for the name and the terminating null character. The maximum size of the login name is {LO‐
       GIN_NAME_MAX}.

       If getlogin_r() is successful, name points to the name the user used at login, even if there are several login
       names with the same user ID.

       The getlogin() and getlogin_r() functions may make use of file descriptors 0, 1, and 2 to find the controlling
       terminal of the current process, examining each in turn until the terminal is found. If in this case  none  of
       these three file descriptors is open to the controlling terminal, these functions may fail. The method used to
       find the terminal associated with a file descriptor may depend on the file descriptor being open to the actual
       terminal device, not /dev/tty.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  getlogin()  shall  return  a pointer to the login name or a null pointer if the
       user's login name cannot be found. Otherwise, it shall return a null pointer and set errno to indicate the er‐
       ror.

       The application shall not modify the string returned. The returned pointer might be invalidated or the  string
       content might be overwritten by a subsequent call to getlogin().

       If  successful,  the  getlogin_r() function shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall be returned to
       indicate the error.

ERRORS
       These functions may fail if:

       EMFILE All file descriptors available to the process are currently open.

       ENFILE The maximum allowable number of files is currently open in the system.

       ENOTTY None of the file descriptors 0, 1, or 2 is open to the controlling terminal of the current process.

       ENXIO  The calling process has no controlling terminal.

       The getlogin_r() function may fail if:

       ERANGE The value of namesize is smaller than the length of the string to be returned including the terminating
              null character.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Getting the User Login Name S
       The following example calls the getlogin() function to obtain the name of the user associated with the calling
       process, and passes this information to the getpwnam() function to get the associated user  database  informa‐
       tion.

           #include <unistd.h>
           #include <sys/types.h>
           #include <pwd.h>
           #include <stdio.h>
           ...
           char *lgn;
           struct passwd *pw;
           ...
           if ((lgn = getlogin()) == NULL || (pw = getpwnam(lgn)) == NULL) {
               fprintf(stderr, "Get of user information failed.\n"); exit(1);
               }

APPLICATION USAGE
       Three  names  associated with the current process can be determined: getpwuid(geteuid()) shall return the name
       associated with the effective user ID of the process; getlogin() shall return the  name  associated  with  the
       current  login  activity; and getpwuid(getuid()) shall return the name associated with the real user ID of the
       process.

       The getlogin_r() function is thread-safe and returns values in a user-supplied buffer instead of possibly  us‐
       ing a static data area that may be overwritten by each call.

RATIONALE
       The  getlogin() function returns a pointer to the user's login name. The same user ID may be shared by several
       login names. If it is desired to get the user database entry that is used during login, the result  of  getlo‐
       gin()  should be used to provide the argument to the getpwnam() function. (This might be used to determine the
       user's login shell, particularly where a single user has multiple login shells with distinct login names,  but
       the same user ID.)

       The  information provided by the cuserid() function, which was originally defined in the POSIX.1‐1988 standard
       and subsequently removed, can be obtained by the following:

           getpwuid(geteuid())

       while the information provided by historical implementations of cuserid() can be obtained by:

           getpwuid(getuid())

       The thread-safe version of this function places the user name in a user-supplied buffer and returns a non-zero
       value if it fails. The non-thread-safe version may return the name in a static data area that may be overwrit‐
       ten by each call.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getpwnam(), getpwuid(), geteuid(), getuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <limits.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            GETLOGIN(3P)
