GETPGRP(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   GETPGRP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getpgrp — get the process group ID of the calling process

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t getpgrp(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The getpgrp() function shall return the process group ID of the calling process.

RETURN VALUE
       The getpgrp() function shall always be successful and no return value is reserved to indicate an error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       4.3 BSD provides a getpgrp() function that returns the process group ID for a specified process. Although this
       function supports job control, all known job control shells always specify the calling process with this func‐
       tion. Thus, the simpler System V getpgrp() suffices, and the added complexity of the 4.3 BSD getpgrp() is pro‐
       vided by the XSI extension getpgid().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, fork(), getpgid(), getpid(), getppid(), kill(), setpgid(), setsid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             GETPGRP(3P)
