GETPEERNAME(3P)                               POSIX Programmer's Manual                               GETPEERNAME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getpeername — get the name of the peer socket

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int getpeername(int socket, struct sockaddr *restrict address,
           socklen_t *restrict address_len);

DESCRIPTION
       The  getpeername() function shall retrieve the peer address of the specified socket, store this address in the
       sockaddr structure pointed to by the address argument, and store the length of  this  address  in  the  object
       pointed to by the address_len argument.

       The  address_len  argument  points  to  a socklen_t object which on input specifies the length of the supplied
       sockaddr structure, and on output specifies the length of the stored address.  If the actual length of the ad‐
       dress is greater than the length of the supplied sockaddr structure, the stored address shall be truncated.

       If the protocol permits connections by unbound clients, and the peer is not bound, then the  value  stored  in
       the object pointed to by address is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The getpeername() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL The socket has been shut down.

       ENOTCONN
              The socket is not connected or otherwise has not had the peer pre-specified.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The operation is not supported for the socket protocol.

       The getpeername() function may fail if:

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to complete the call.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       accept(), bind(), getsockname(), socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                         GETPEERNAME(3P)
