GETS(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      GETS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       gets — get a string from a stdin stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       char *gets(char *s);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The gets() function shall read bytes from the standard input stream, stdin, into the array pointed  to  by  s,
       until  a  <newline> is read or an end-of-file condition is encountered. Any <newline> shall be discarded and a
       null byte shall be placed immediately after the last byte read into the array.

       The gets() function may mark the last data access timestamp of the file associated with stream for update. The
       last data access timestamp shall be marked for update by the first successful execution of  fgetc(),  fgets(),
       fread(), fscanf(), getc(), getchar(), getdelim(), getline(), gets(), or scanf() using stream that returns data
       not supplied by a prior call to ungetc().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, gets() shall return s.  If the end-of-file indicator for the stream is set, or if
       the stream is at end-of-file, the end-of-file indicator for the stream shall be set and gets() shall return  a
       null  pointer.  If a read error occurs, the error indicator for the stream shall be set, gets() shall return a
       null pointer, and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       Refer to fgetc().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Reading a line that overflows the array pointed to by s results in undefined behavior. The use of  fgets()  is
       recommended.

       Since  the user cannot specify the length of the buffer passed to gets(), use of this function is discouraged.
       The length of the string read is unlimited. It is possible to overflow this buffer in such a way as  to  cause
       applications to fail, or possible system security violations.

       Applications should use the fgets() function instead of the obsolescent gets() function.

RATIONALE
       The  standard  developers  decided  to  mark the gets() function as obsolescent even though it is in the ISO C
       standard due to the possibility of buffer overflow.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The gets() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, feof(), ferror(), fgets()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                GETS(3P)
