GETSOCKNAME(3P)                               POSIX Programmer's Manual                               GETSOCKNAME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getsockname — get the socket name

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int getsockname(int socket, struct sockaddr *restrict address,
           socklen_t *restrict address_len);

DESCRIPTION
       The  getsockname()  function shall retrieve the locally-bound name of the specified socket, store this address
       in the sockaddr structure pointed to by the address argument, and store the length of this address in the  ob‐
       ject pointed to by the address_len argument.

       The  address_len  argument  points  to  a socklen_t object which on input specifies the length of the supplied
       sockaddr structure, and on output specifies the length of the stored address.  If the actual length of the ad‐
       dress is greater than the length of the supplied sockaddr structure, the stored address shall be truncated.

       If the socket has not been bound to a local name, the value stored in the object pointed to by address is  un‐
       specified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  0  shall  be  returned,  the address argument shall point to the address of the
       socket, and the address_len argument shall point to the length of the address. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned
       and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The getsockname() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The operation is not supported for this socket's protocol.

       The getsockname() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The socket has been shut down.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to complete the function.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       accept(), bind(), getpeername(), socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                         GETSOCKNAME(3P)
