GETSID(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    GETSID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getsid — get the process group ID of a session leader

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t getsid(pid_t pid);

DESCRIPTION
       The  getsid()  function  shall  obtain  the  process group ID of the process that is the session leader of the
       process specified by pid.  If pid is (pid_t)0, it specifies the calling process.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, getsid() shall return the process group ID of the session leader of the  specified
       process. Otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The getsid() function shall fail if:

       EPERM  The  process specified by pid is not in the same session as the calling process, and the implementation
              does not allow access to the process group ID of the session leader of that process  from  the  calling
              process.

       ESRCH  There is no process with a process ID equal to pid.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, fork(), getpid(), getpgid(), setpgid(), setsid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              GETSID(3P)
