GETTIMEOFDAY(3P)                              POSIX Programmer's Manual                              GETTIMEOFDAY(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       gettimeofday — get the date and time

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/time.h>

       int gettimeofday(struct timeval *restrict tp, void *restrict tzp);

DESCRIPTION
       The  gettimeofday()  function  shall  obtain the current time, expressed as seconds and microseconds since the
       Epoch, and store it in the timeval structure pointed to by tp.  The resolution of the system clock is unspeci‐
       fied.

       If tzp is not a null pointer, the behavior is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       The gettimeofday() function shall return 0 and no value shall be reserved to indicate an error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Applications should use the clock_gettime() function instead of the obsolescent gettimeofday() function.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The gettimeofday() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       clock_getres(), ctime()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                        GETTIMEOFDAY(3P)
