GETXATTR(2)                                   Linux Programmer's Manual                                   GETXATTR(2)

NAME
       getxattr, lgetxattr, fgetxattr - retrieve an extended attribute value

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/types.h>
       #include <sys/xattr.h>

       ssize_t getxattr(const char *path, const char *name,
                        void *value, size_t size);
       ssize_t lgetxattr(const char *path, const char *name,
                        void *value, size_t size);
       ssize_t fgetxattr(int fd, const char *name,
                        void *value, size_t size);

DESCRIPTION
       Extended  attributes  are  name:value pairs associated with inodes (files, directories, symbolic links, etc.).
       They are extensions to the normal attributes which are associated with all inodes in  the  system  (i.e.,  the
       stat(2) data).  A complete overview of extended attributes concepts can be found in xattr(7).

       getxattr() retrieves the value of the extended attribute identified by name and associated with the given path
       in  the  filesystem.  The attribute value is placed in the buffer pointed to by value; size specifies the size
       of that buffer.  The return value of the call is the number of bytes placed in value.

       lgetxattr() is identical to getxattr(), except in the case of a symbolic link, where the link itself is inter‐
       rogated, not the file that it refers to.

       fgetxattr() is identical to getxattr(), only the open file referred to by fd (as returned by open(2))  is  in‐
       terrogated in place of path.

       An  extended  attribute  name is a null-terminated string.  The name includes a namespace prefix; there may be
       several, disjoint namespaces associated with an individual inode.  The value of an  extended  attribute  is  a
       chunk of arbitrary textual or binary data that was assigned using setxattr(2).

       If  size  is specified as zero, these calls return the current size of the named extended attribute (and leave
       value unchanged).  This can be used to determine the size of the buffer that should be supplied  in  a  subse‐
       quent  call.   (But,  bear in mind that there is a possibility that the attribute value may change between the
       two calls, so that it is still necessary to check the return status from the second call.)

RETURN VALUE
       On success, these calls return a nonnegative value which is the size (in  bytes)  of  the  extended  attribute
       value.  On failure, -1 is returned and errno is set appropriately.

ERRORS
       E2BIG  The  size  of  the attribute value is larger than the maximum size allowed; the attribute cannot be re‐
              trieved.  This can happen on filesystems that support very large attribute values such  as  NFSv4,  for
              example.

       ENOATTR
              The  named  attribute  does not exist, or the process has no access to this attribute.  (ENOATTR is de‐
              fined to be a synonym for ENODATA in <attr/xattr.h>.)

       ENOTSUP
              Extended attributes are not supported by the filesystem, or are disabled.

       ERANGE The size of the value buffer is too small to hold the result.

       In addition, the errors documented in stat(2) can also occur.

VERSIONS
       These system calls have been available on Linux since kernel 2.4; glibc support is provided since version 2.3.

CONFORMING TO
       These system calls are Linux-specific.

EXAMPLE
       See listxattr(2).

SEE ALSO
       getfattr(1), setfattr(1), listxattr(2), open(2), removexattr(2), setxattr(2), stat(2), symlink(7), xattr(7)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 4.15 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the  project,  information
       about    reporting    bugs,    and    the    latest    version    of    this    page,    can   be   found   at
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.

Linux                                                 2017-03-13                                          GETXATTR(2)
