GMTIME(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    GMTIME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       gmtime, gmtime_r — convert a time value to a broken-down UTC time

SYNOPSIS
       #include <time.h>

       struct tm *gmtime(const time_t *timer);
       struct tm *gmtime_r(const time_t *restrict timer,
           struct tm *restrict result);

DESCRIPTION
       For  gmtime(): The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict between the requirements described here  and  the  ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The gmtime() function shall convert the time in seconds since the Epoch pointed to by timer into a broken-down
       time, expressed as Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).

       The  relationship  between a time in seconds since the Epoch used as an argument to gmtime() and the tm struc‐
       ture (defined in the <time.h> header) is that the result shall be as specified in the expression given in  the
       definition  of seconds since the Epoch (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.15, Seconds
       Since the Epoch), where the names in the structure and in the expression correspond.

       The same relationship shall apply for gmtime_r().

       The gmtime() function need not be thread-safe.

       The asctime(), ctime(), gmtime(), and localtime() functions shall return values in one of two static  objects:
       a  broken-down  time structure and an array of type char.  Execution of any of the functions may overwrite the
       information returned in either of these objects by any of the other functions.

       The gmtime_r() function shall convert the time in seconds since the Epoch pointed to by timer into  a  broken-
       down  time expressed as Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).  The broken-down time is stored in the structure re‐
       ferred to by result.  The gmtime_r() function shall also return the address of the same structure.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the gmtime() function shall return a pointer to a struct tm.  If an error  is  de‐
       tected, gmtime() shall return a null pointer and set errno to indicate the error.

       Upon  successful  completion,  gmtime_r() shall return the address of the structure pointed to by the argument
       result.  If an error is detected, gmtime_r() shall return a null pointer and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The gmtime() and gmtime_r() functions shall fail if:

       EOVERFLOW
              The result cannot be represented.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The gmtime_r() function is thread-safe and returns values in a user-supplied buffer instead of possibly  using
       a static data area that may be overwritten by each call.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       asctime(), clock(), ctime(), difftime(), localtime(), mktime(), strftime(), strptime(), time(), utime()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.15, Seconds Since the Epoch, <time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              GMTIME(3P)
