GRANTPT(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   GRANTPT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       grantpt — grant access to the slave pseudo-terminal device

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int grantpt(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The grantpt() function shall change the mode and ownership of the slave pseudo-terminal device associated with
       its  master  pseudo-terminal  counterpart.  The  fildes  argument is a file descriptor that refers to a master
       pseudo-terminal device. The user ID of the slave shall be set to the real UID of the calling process  and  the
       group  ID  shall  be set to an unspecified group ID. The permission mode of the slave pseudo-terminal shall be
       set to readable and writable by the owner, and writable by the group.

       The behavior of the grantpt() function is unspecified if the application has installed  a  signal  handler  to
       catch SIGCHLD signals.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, grantpt() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno to indicate
       the error.

ERRORS
       The grantpt() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid open file descriptor.

       EINVAL The fildes argument is not associated with a master pseudo-terminal device.

       EACCES The corresponding slave pseudo-terminal device could not be accessed.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       See the RATIONALE section for posix_openpt().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       open(), posix_openpt(), ptsname(), unlockpt()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             GRANTPT(3P)
