HASH(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      HASH(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       hash — remember or report utility locations

SYNOPSIS
       hash [utility...]

       hash −r

DESCRIPTION
       The hash utility shall affect the way the current shell environment remembers the locations of utilities found
       as described in Section 2.9.1.1, Command Search and Execution.  Depending on the arguments specified, it shall
       add  utility locations to its list of remembered locations or it shall purge the contents of the list. When no
       arguments are specified, it shall report on the contents of the list.

       Utilities provided as built-ins to the shell shall not be reported by hash.

OPTIONS
       The hash utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −r        Forget all previously remembered utility locations.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       utility   The  name  of a utility to be searched for and added to the list of remembered locations. If utility
                 contains one or more <slash> characters, the results are unspecified.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of hash:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       PATH      Determine the location of utility, as described in the  Base  Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008,
                 Chapter 8, Environment Variables.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The  standard output of hash shall be used when no arguments are specified. Its format is unspecified, but in‐
       cludes the pathname of each utility in the list of remembered locations for  the  current  shell  environment.
       This  list shall consist of those utilities named in previous hash invocations that have been invoked, and may
       contain those invoked and found through the normal command search process.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Since hash affects the current shell execution environment, it is always provided as a shell regular built-in.
       If it is called in a separate utility execution environment, such as one of the following:

           nohup hash −r
           find . −type f | xargs hash

       it does not affect the command search process of the caller's environment.

       The hash utility may be implemented as an alias—for example, alias −t −, in which case utilities found through
       normal command search are not listed by the hash command.

       The effects of hash −r can also be achieved portably by resetting the value of PATH;  in  the  simplest  form,
       this can be:

           PATH="$PATH"

       The  use  of  hash  with utility names is unnecessary for most applications, but may provide a performance im‐
       provement on a few implementations; normally, the hashing process is included by default.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.9.1.1, Command Search and Execution

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                HASH(1P)
