HEAD(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      HEAD(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       head — copy the first part of files

SYNOPSIS
       head [−n number] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  head utility shall copy its input files to the standard output, ending the output for each file at a des‐
       ignated point.

       Copying shall end at the point in each input file indicated by the −n number option. The option-argument  num‐
       ber shall be counted in units of lines.

OPTIONS
       The  head  utility  shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −n number The first number lines of each input file shall be copied to standard output. The application  shall
                 ensure that the number option-argument is a positive decimal integer.

       When a file contains less than number lines, it shall be copied to standard output in its entirety. This shall
       not be an error.

       If no options are specified, head shall act as if −n 10 had been specified.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of an input file. If no file operands are specified, the standard input shall be used.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used if no file operands are specified, and shall be used if a file operand is '−'
       and  the  implementation treats the '−' as meaning standard input.  Otherwise, the standard input shall not be
       used.  See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       Input files shall be text files, but the line length is not restricted to {LINE_MAX} bytes.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of head:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall contain designated portions of the input files.

       If multiple file operands are specified, head shall precede the output for each with the header:

           "\n==> %s <==\n", <pathname>

       except that the first header written shall not include the initial <newline>.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       To write the first ten lines of all files (except those with a leading period) in the directory:

           head −− *

RATIONALE
       Although it is possible to simulate head with sed 10q for a single file, the standard developers decided  that
       the popularity of head on historical BSD systems warranted its inclusion alongside tail.

       POSIX.1‐2008 version of head follows the Utility Syntax Guidelines. The −n option was added to this new inter‐
       face  so that head and tail would be more logically related. Earlier versions of this standard allowed a −num‐
       ber option. This form is no longer specified by POSIX.1‐2008 but may be present in some implementations.

       There is no −c option (as there is in tail) because it is not historical practice and because other  utilities
       in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 provide similar functionality.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       sed, tail

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                HEAD(1P)
