ICONV(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     ICONV(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       iconv — codeset conversion function

SYNOPSIS
       #include <iconv.h>

       size_t iconv(iconv_t cd, char **restrict inbuf,
           size_t *restrict inbytesleft, char **restrict outbuf,
           size_t *restrict outbytesleft);

DESCRIPTION
       The  iconv() function shall convert the sequence of characters from one codeset, in the array specified by in‐
       buf, into a sequence of corresponding characters in another codeset, in the array specified  by  outbuf.   The
       codesets  are those specified in the iconv_open() call that returned the conversion descriptor, cd.  The inbuf
       argument points to a variable that points to the first character in the input buffer and inbytesleft indicates
       the number of bytes to the end of the buffer to be converted. The outbuf argument points to  a  variable  that
       points to the first available byte in the output buffer and outbytesleft indicates the number of the available
       bytes to the end of the buffer.

       For  state-dependent  encodings, the conversion descriptor cd is placed into its initial shift state by a call
       for which inbuf is a null pointer, or for which inbuf points to a null pointer. When iconv() is called in this
       way, and if outbuf is not a null pointer or a pointer to a null pointer, and outbytesleft points to a positive
       value, iconv() shall place, into the output buffer, the byte sequence to change the output buffer to its  ini‐
       tial  shift  state.  If the output buffer is not large enough to hold the entire reset sequence, iconv() shall
       fail and set errno to [E2BIG].  Subsequent calls with inbuf as other than a null pointer or  a  pointer  to  a
       null pointer cause the conversion to take place from the current state of the conversion descriptor.

       If  a  sequence of input bytes does not form a valid character in the specified codeset, conversion shall stop
       after the previous successfully converted character. If the input buffer ends with an incomplete character  or
       shift sequence, conversion shall stop after the previous successfully converted bytes. If the output buffer is
       not  large enough to hold the entire converted input, conversion shall stop just prior to the input bytes that
       would cause the output buffer to overflow. The variable pointed to by inbuf shall be updated to point  to  the
       byte following the last byte successfully used in the conversion. The value pointed to by inbytesleft shall be
       decremented to reflect the number of bytes still not converted in the input buffer. The variable pointed to by
       outbuf  shall  be  updated  to  point  to the byte following the last byte of converted output data. The value
       pointed to by outbytesleft shall be decremented to reflect the number of bytes still available in  the  output
       buffer.  For  state-dependent encodings, the conversion descriptor shall be updated to reflect the shift state
       in effect at the end of the last successfully converted byte sequence.

       If iconv() encounters a character in the input buffer that is valid, but for which an identical character does
       not exist in the target codeset, iconv() shall perform an implementation-defined conversion on this character.

RETURN VALUE
       The iconv() function shall update the variables pointed to by the arguments to reflect the extent of the  con‐
       version and return the number of non-identical conversions performed. If the entire string in the input buffer
       is  converted,  the  value pointed to by inbytesleft shall be 0. If the input conversion is stopped due to any
       conditions mentioned above, the value pointed to by inbytesleft shall be non-zero and errno shall  be  set  to
       indicate  the condition. If an error occurs, iconv() shall return (size_t)−1 and set errno to indicate the er‐
       ror.

ERRORS
       The iconv() function shall fail if:

       EILSEQ Input conversion stopped due to an input byte that does not belong to the input codeset.

       E2BIG  Input conversion stopped due to lack of space in the output buffer.

       EINVAL Input conversion stopped due to an incomplete character or shift sequence  at  the  end  of  the  input
              buffer.

       The iconv() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The cd argument is not a valid open conversion descriptor.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  inbuf  argument indirectly points to the memory area which contains the conversion input data. The outbuf
       argument indirectly points to the memory area which is to contain the result of the  conversion.  The  objects
       indirectly pointed to by inbuf and outbuf are not restricted to containing data that is directly representable
       in  the ISO C standard language char data type. The type of inbuf and outbuf, char **, does not imply that the
       objects pointed to are interpreted as null-terminated C strings or arrays of characters. Any interpretation of
       a byte sequence that represents a character in a given character set encoding scheme is done internally within
       the codeset converters. For example, the area pointed to indirectly by inbuf and/or  outbuf  can  contain  all
       zero  octets  that  are not interpreted as string terminators but as coded character data according to the re‐
       spective codeset encoding scheme. The type of the data (char, short, long, and so on) read or  stored  in  the
       objects  is not specified, but may be inferred for both the input and output data by the converters determined
       by the fromcode and tocode arguments of iconv_open().

       Regardless of the data type inferred by the converter, the size of the remaining space in both input and  out‐
       put objects (the intbytesleft and outbytesleft arguments) is always measured in bytes.

       For  implementations  that support the conversion of state-dependent encodings, the conversion descriptor must
       be able to accurately reflect the shift-state in effect at the end of the last successful  conversion.  It  is
       not  required  that  the conversion descriptor itself be updated, which would require it to be a pointer type.
       Thus, implementations are free to implement the descriptor as a handle (other than a pointer  type)  by  which
       the conversion information can be accessed and updated.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       iconv_open(), iconv_close(), mbsrtowcs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <iconv.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               ICONV(3P)
