INITSTATE(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 INITSTATE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       initstate, random, setstate, srandom — pseudo-random number functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       char *initstate(unsigned seed, char *state, size_t size);
       long random(void);
       char *setstate(char *state);
       void srandom(unsigned seed);

DESCRIPTION
       The  random()  function  shall  use a non-linear additive feedback random-number generator employing a default
       state array size of 31 long integers to return successive pseudo-random numbers in the range from 0 to  231−1.
       The  period  of this random-number generator is approximately 16 x (231−1). The size of the state array deter‐
       mines the period of the random-number generator. Increasing the state array size shall increase the period.

       With 256 bytes of state information, the period of the random-number generator shall be greater than 269.

       Like rand(), random() shall produce by default a sequence of numbers that can be duplicated by  calling  sran‐
       dom() with 1 as the seed.

       The srandom() function shall initialize the current state array using the value of seed.

       The  initstate()  and  setstate() functions handle restarting and changing random-number generators. The init‐
       state() function allows a state array, pointed to by the state argument, to be initialized for future use. The
       size argument, which specifies the size in bytes of the state array, shall be used by  initstate()  to  decide
       what  type  of random-number generator to use; the larger the state array, the more random the numbers. Values
       for the amount of state information are 8, 32, 64, 128, and 256 bytes. Other values greater than 8  bytes  are
       rounded  down to the nearest one of these values. If initstate() is called with 8≤size<32, then random() shall
       use a simple linear congruential random number generator. The seed argument specifies a starting point for the
       random-number sequence and provides for restarting at the same point. The initstate() function shall return  a
       pointer to the previous state information array.

       If  initstate()  has  not  been  called, then random() shall behave as though initstate() had been called with
       seed=1 and size=128.

       Once a state has been initialized, setstate() allows switching between state arrays. The array defined by  the
       state argument shall be used for further random-number generation until initstate() is called or setstate() is
       called again. The setstate() function shall return a pointer to the previous state array.

RETURN VALUE
       If initstate() is called with size less than 8, it shall return NULL.

       The random() function shall return the generated pseudo-random number.

       The srandom() function shall not return a value.

       Upon  successful  completion,  initstate()  and setstate() shall return a pointer to the previous state array;
       otherwise, a null pointer shall be returned.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       After initialization, a state array can be restarted at a different point in one of two ways:

        1. The initstate() function can be used, with the desired seed, state array, and size of the array.

        2. The setstate() function, with the desired state, can be used, followed by srandom() with the desired seed.
           The advantage of using both of these functions is that the size of the state array does  not  have  to  be
           saved once it is initialized.

       Although some implementations of random() have written messages to standard error, such implementations do not
       conform to POSIX.1‐2008.

       Issue 5 restored the historical behavior of this function.

       Threaded  applications  should  use erand48(), nrand48(), or jrand48() instead of random() when an independent
       random number sequence in multiple threads is required.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       drand48(), rand()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           INITSTATE(3P)
