IPCRM(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     IPCRM(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ipcrm — remove an XSI message queue, semaphore set, or shared memory segment identifier

SYNOPSIS
       ipcrm [−q msgid|−Q msgkey|−s semid|−S semkey|−m shmid|−M shmkey]...

DESCRIPTION
       The ipcrm utility shall remove zero or more message queues, semaphore sets, or shared memory segments. The in‐
       terprocess communication facilities to be removed are specified by the options.

       Only a user with appropriate privileges shall be allowed to remove an interprocess communication facility that
       was not created by or owned by the user invoking ipcrm.

OPTIONS
       The  ipcrm  utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −q msgid  Remove the message queue identifier msgid from the system and destroy the  message  queue  and  data
                 structure associated with it.

       −m shmid  Remove the shared memory identifier shmid from the system. The shared memory segment and data struc‐
                 ture associated with it shall be destroyed after the last detach.

       −s semid  Remove  the  semaphore  identifier  semid from the system and destroy the set of semaphores and data
                 structure associated with it.

       −Q msgkey Remove the message queue identifier, created with key msgkey, from the system and destroy  the  mes‐
                 sage queue and data structure associated with it.

       −M shmkey Remove  the  shared  memory  identifier, created with key shmkey, from the system. The shared memory
                 segment and data structure associated with it shall be destroyed after the last detach.

       −S semkey Remove the semaphore identifier, created with key semkey, from the system and  destroy  the  set  of
                 semaphores and data structure associated with it.

OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of ipcrm:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       ipcs

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, msgctl(), semctl(), shmctl()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               IPCRM(1P)
