ISATTY(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    ISATTY(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       isatty — test for a terminal device

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int isatty(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The  isatty()  function  shall test whether fildes, an open file descriptor, is associated with a terminal de‐
       vice.

RETURN VALUE
       The isatty() function shall return 1 if fildes is associated with a terminal; otherwise, it shall return 0 and
       may set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The isatty() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid open file descriptor.

       ENOTTY The file associated with the fildes argument is not a terminal.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The isatty() function does not necessarily indicate that a  human  being  is  available  for  interaction  via
       fildes.  It is quite possible that non-terminal devices are connected to the communications line.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              ISATTY(3P)
