ISDIGIT(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   ISDIGIT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       isdigit, isdigit_l — test for a decimal digit

SYNOPSIS
       #include <ctype.h>

       int isdigit(int c);
       int isdigit_l(int c, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For isdigit(): The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict  between  the  requirements  described  here  and  the  ISO C  standard is unintentional. This volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The isdigit() and isdigit_l() functions shall test whether c is a character of class digit in the current  lo‐
       cale,  or  in the locale represented by locale, respectively; see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008,
       Chapter 7, Locale.

       The c argument is an int, the value of which the application shall ensure is a character representable  as  an
       unsigned char or equal to the value of the macro EOF. If the argument has any other value, the behavior is un‐
       defined.

       The  behavior is undefined if the locale argument to isdigit_l() is the special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
       or is not a valid locale object handle.

RETURN VALUE
       The isdigit() and isdigit_l() functions shall return non-zero if c is a decimal digit; otherwise,  they  shall
       return 0.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       To  ensure  applications  portability, especially across natural languages, only these functions and the func‐
       tions in the reference pages listed in the SEE ALSO section should be used for character classification.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       isalnum(), isalpha(), isblank(), iscntrl(), isgraph(), islower(), isprint(), ispunct(), isspace(),  isupper(),
       isxdigit()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale, <ctype.h>, <locale.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             ISDIGIT(3P)
