ISGREATER(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 ISGREATER(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       isgreater — test if x greater than y

SYNOPSIS
       #include <math.h>

       int isgreater(real-floating x, real-floating y);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The isgreater() macro shall determine whether its first argument is greater  than  its  second  argument.  The
       value  of  isgreater(x,  y)  shall be equal to (x) > (y); however, unlike (x) > (y), isgreater(x, y) shall not
       raise the invalid floating-point exception when x and y are unordered.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the isgreater() macro shall return the value of (x) > (y).

       If x or y is NaN, 0 shall be returned.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The relational and equality operators support the usual mathematical relationships between numeric values. For
       any ordered pair of numeric values, exactly one of the relationships (less, greater, and equal) is true. Rela‐
       tional operators may raise the invalid floating-point exception when argument values are NaNs. For a NaN and a
       numeric value, or for two NaNs, just the unordered relationship is true. This macro is a quiet  (non-floating-
       point exception raising) version of a relational operator. It facilitates writing efficient code that accounts
       for  NaNs without suffering the invalid floating-point exception. In the SYNOPSIS section, real-floating indi‐
       cates that the argument shall be an expression of real-floating type.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       isgreaterequal(), isless(), islessequal(), islessgreater(), isunordered()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <math.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           ISGREATER(3P)
