ISWALPHA(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  ISWALPHA(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       iswalpha, iswalpha_l — test for an alphabetic wide-character code

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wctype.h>

       int iswalpha(wint_t wc);
       int iswalpha_l(wint_t wc, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For  iswalpha():  The  functionality  described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any
       conflict between the requirements described here and the ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  iswalpha() and iswalpha_l() functions shall test whether wc is a wide-character code representing a char‐
       acter of class alpha in the current locale, or in the locale represented by locale, respectively; see the Base
       Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale.

       The wc argument is a wint_t, the value of which the application shall ensure is a wide-character  code  corre‐
       sponding  to a valid character in the current locale, or equal to the value of the macro WEOF. If the argument
       has any other value, the behavior is undefined.

       The behavior is undefined if the locale argument to iswalpha_l() is the special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
       or is not a valid locale object handle.

RETURN VALUE
       The iswalpha() and iswalpha_l() functions shall return non-zero if wc is an  alphabetic  wide-character  code;
       otherwise, they shall return 0.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       To  ensure  applications  portability, especially across natural languages, only these functions and the func‐
       tions in the reference pages listed in the SEE ALSO section should be used for character classification.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       iswalnum(), iswcntrl(), iswctype(), iswdigit(), iswgraph(), iswlower(),  iswprint(),  iswpunct(),  iswspace(),
       iswupper(), iswxdigit(), setlocale(), uselocale()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale, <locale.h>, <wctype.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            ISWALPHA(3P)
