ISWBLANK(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  ISWBLANK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       iswblank, iswblank_l — test for a blank wide-character code

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wctype.h>

       int iswblank(wint_t wc);
       int iswblank_l(wint_t wc, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For  iswblank():  The  functionality  described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any
       conflict between the requirements described here and the ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  iswblank() and iswblank() functions shall test whether wc is a wide-character code representing a charac‐
       ter of class blank in the current locale, or in the locale represented by locale, respectively; see  the  Base
       Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale.

       The  wc  argument is a wint_t, the value of which the application shall ensure is a wide-character code corre‐
       sponding to a valid character in the current locale, or equal to the value of the macro WEOF. If the  argument
       has any other value, the behavior is undefined.

       The behavior is undefined if the locale argument to iswblank_l() is the special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
       or is not a valid locale object handle.

RETURN VALUE
       The  iswblank()  and iswblank_l() functions shall return non-zero if wc is a blank wide-character code; other‐
       wise, they shall return 0.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       To ensure applications portability, especially across natural languages, only these functions  and  the  func‐
       tions in the reference pages listed in the SEE ALSO section should be used for character classification.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       iswalnum(),  iswalpha(),  iswcntrl(),  iswctype(), iswdigit(), iswgraph(), iswlower(), iswprint(), iswpunct(),
       iswspace(), iswupper(), iswxdigit(), setlocale(), uselocale()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale, <locale.h>, <wctype.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            ISWBLANK(3P)
