JOIN(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      JOIN(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       join — relational database operator

SYNOPSIS
       join [−a file_number|−v file_number] [−e string] [−o list] [−t char]
           [−1 field] [−2 field] file1 file2

DESCRIPTION
       The join utility shall perform an equality join on the files file1 and file2.  The joined files shall be writ‐
       ten to the standard output.

       The  join field is a field in each file on which the files are compared. The join utility shall write one line
       in the output for each pair of lines in file1 and file2 that have identical join fields. The  output  line  by
       default  shall consist of the join field, then the remaining fields from file1, then the remaining fields from
       file2.  This format can be changed by using the −o option (see below). The −a option can be used  to  add  un‐
       matched lines to the output. The −v option can be used to output only unmatched lines.

       The  files  file1  and file2 shall be ordered in the collating sequence of sort −b on the fields on which they
       shall be joined, by default the first in each line. All selected output shall be written in the same collating
       sequence.

       The default input field separators shall be <blank> characters. In this case, multiple separators shall  count
       as one field separator, and leading separators shall be ignored. The default output field separator shall be a
       <space>.

       The field separator and collating sequence can be changed by using the −t option (see below).

       If  the  same  key  appears  more than once in either file, all combinations of the set of remaining fields in
       file1 and the set of remaining fields in file2 are output in the order of the lines encountered.

       If the input files are not in the appropriate collating sequence, the results are unspecified.

OPTIONS
       The join utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −a file_number
                 Produce  a  line for each unpairable line in file file_number, where file_number is 1 or 2, in addi‐
                 tion to the default output. If both −a1 and −a2 are specified, all unpairable lines shall be output.

       −e string Replace empty output fields in the list selected by −o with the string string.

       −o list   Construct the output line to comprise the fields specified in list, each element of which shall have
                 one of the following two forms:

                  1. file_number.field, where file_number is a file number and field is a decimal integer field  num‐
                     ber

                  2. 0 (zero), representing the join field

                 The  elements of list shall be either <comma>-separated or <blank>-separated, as specified in Guide‐
                 line 8 of the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.  The
                 fields specified by list shall be written for all selected output lines.  Fields  selected  by  list
                 that  do  not appear in the input shall be treated as empty output fields. (See the −e option.) Only
                 specifically requested fields shall be written. The application shall ensure that list is  a  single
                 command line argument.

       −t char   Use  character  char  as  a separator, for both input and output. Every appearance of char in a line
                 shall be significant. When this option is specified, the collating sequence shall  be  the  same  as
                 sort without the −b option.

       −v file_number
                 Instead  of  the  default output, produce a line only for each unpairable line in file_number, where
                 file_number is 1 or 2. If both −v1 and −v2 are specified, all unpairable lines shall be output.

       −1 field  Join on the fieldth field of file 1. Fields are decimal integers starting with 1.

       −2 field  Join on the fieldth field of file 2. Fields are decimal integers starting with 1.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       file1, file2
                 A pathname of a file to be joined. If either of the file1 or file2 operands is '−', the standard in‐
                 put shall be used in its place.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used only if the file1 or file2 operand is '−'.  See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files shall be text files.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of join:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_COLLATE
                 Determine the locale of the collating sequence join expects to have been used when the  input  files
                 were sorted.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The  join  utility  output  shall  be a concatenation of selected character fields.  When the −o option is not
       specified, the output shall be:

           "%s%s%s\n", <join field>, <other file1 fields>,
               <other file2 fields>

       If the join field is not the first field in a file, the <other file fields> for that file shall be:

           <fields preceding join field>, <fields following join field>

       When the −o option is specified, the output format shall be:

           "%s\n", <concatenation of fields>

       where the concatenation of fields is described by the −o option, above.

       For either format, each field (except the last) shall be written with its trailing separator character. If the
       separator is the default (<blank> characters), a single <space> shall be written after each field (except  the
       last).

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    All input files were output successfully.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Pathnames consisting of numeric digits or of the form string.string should not be specified directly following
       the −o list.

EXAMPLES
       The −o 0 field essentially selects the union of the join fields. For example, given file phone:

           !Name           Phone Number
           Don             +1 123-456-7890
           Hal             +1 234-567-8901
           Yasushi         +2 345-678-9012

       and file fax:

           !Name           Fax Number
           Don             +1 123-456-7899
           Keith           +1 456-789-0122
           Yasushi         +2 345-678-9011

       (where the large expanses of white space are meant to each represent a single <tab>), the command:

           join −t "<tab>" −a 1 −a 2 −e '(unknown)' −o 0,1.2,2.2 phone fax

       would produce:

           !Name           Phone Number            Fax Number
           Don             +1 123-456-7890         +1 123-456-7899
           Hal             +1 234-567-8901         (unknown)
           Keith           (unknown)               +1 456-789-0122
           Yasushi         +2 345-678-9012         +2 345-678-9011

       Multiple instances of the same key will produce combinatorial results.  The following:

           fa:
               a x
               a y
               a z
           fb:
               a p

       will produce:

           a x p
           a y p
           a z p

       And the following:

           fa:
               a b c
               a d e
           fb:
               a w x
               a y z
               a o p

       will produce:

           a b c w x
           a b c y z
           a b c o p
           a d e w x
           a d e y z
           a d e o p

RATIONALE
       The  −e  option  is  only effective when used with −o because, unless specific fields are identified using −o,
       join is not aware of what fields might be empty. The exception to this is the join field, but  identifying  an
       empty  join  field  with  the  −e  string is not historical practice and some scripts might break if this were
       changed.

       The 0 field in the −o list was adopted from the Tenth Edition version of join to satisfy international  objec‐
       tions  that  the  join in the base documents does not support the ``full join'' or ``outer join'' described in
       relational database literature. Although it has been possible to include a join field in the  output  (by  de‐
       fault, or by field number using −o), the join field could not be included for an unpaired line selected by −a.
       The −o 0 field essentially selects the union of the join fields.

       This sort of outer join was not possible with the join commands in the base documents. The −o 0 field was cho‐
       sen  because it is an upwards-compatible change for applications. An alternative was considered: have the join
       field represent the union of the fields in the files (where they are identical for matched lines, and  one  or
       both are null for unmatched lines). This was not adopted because it would break some historical applications.

       The ability to specify file2 as − is not historical practice; it was added for completeness.

       The  −v  option  is  not historical practice, but was considered necessary because it permitted the writing of
       only those lines that do not match on the join field, as opposed to the −a option,  which  prints  both  lines
       that do and do not match. This additional facility is parallel with the −v option of grep.

       Some historical implementations have been encountered where a blank line in one of the input files was consid‐
       ered to be the end of the file; the description in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not cite this as an allow‐
       able case.

       Earlier  versions  of this standard allowed −j, −j1, −j2 options, and a form of the −o option that allowed the
       list option-argument to be multiple arguments. These forms are no longer specified by POSIX.1‐2008 but may  be
       present in some implementations.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       awk, comm, sort, uniq

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                JOIN(1P)
