KERNEL LOCKDOWN(7)                            Linux Programmer's Manual                            KERNEL LOCKDOWN(7)

NAME
       Kernel Lockdown - Kernel image access prevention feature

DESCRIPTION
       The  Kernel Lockdown feature is designed to prevent both direct and indirect access to a running kernel image,
       attempting to protect against unauthorised modification of the kernel image and to prevent access to  security
       and cryptographic data located in kernel memory, whilst still permitting driver modules to be loaded.

       Lockdown is typically enabled during boot and may be terminated, if configured, by typing a special key combi‐
       nation on a directly attached physical keyboard.

       If a prohibited or restricted feature is accessed or used, the kernel will emit a message that looks like:

               Lockdown: X: Y is restricted, see man kernel_lockdown.7

       where X indicates the process name and Y indicates what is restricted.

       On  an EFI-enabled x86 or arm64 machine, lockdown will be automatically enabled if the system boots in EFI Se‐
       cure Boot mode.

COVERAGE
       When lockdown is in effect, a number of features are disabled or have their  use  restricted.   This  includes
       special device files and kernel services that allow direct access of the kernel image:

              /dev/mem
              /dev/kmem
              /dev/kcore
              /dev/ioports
              BPF
              kprobes

       and  the  ability to directly configure and control devices, so as to prevent the use of a device to access or
       modify a kernel image:

              The use of module parameters that directly specify hardware parameters to drivers  through  the  kernel
              command line or when loading a module.

              The use of direct PCI BAR access.

              The use of the ioperm and iopl instructions on x86.

              The use of the KD*IO console ioctls.

              The use of the TIOCSSERIAL serial ioctl.

              The alteration of MSR registers on x86.

              The replacement of the PCMCIA CIS.

              The overriding of ACPI tables.

              The use of ACPI error injection.

              The specification of the ACPI RDSP address.

              The use of ACPI custom methods.

       Certain facilities are restricted:

              Only validly signed modules may be loaded (waived if the module file being loaded is vouched for by IMA
              appraisal).

              Only  validly signed binaries may be kexec'd (waived if the binary image file to be executed is vouched
              for by IMA appraisal).

              Unencrypted hibernation/suspend to swap are disallowed as the kernel image is saved to  a  medium  that
              can then be accessed.

              Use  of debugfs is not permitted as this allows a whole range of actions including direct configuration
              of, access to and driving of hardware.

              IMA requires the addition of the "secure_boot" rules to the policy, whether or not they  are  specified
              on the command line, for both the builtin and custom policies in secure boot lockdown mode.

Linux                                                 2017-10-05                                   KERNEL LOCKDOWN(7)
