KILL(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      KILL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       kill — send a signal to a process or a group of processes

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int kill(pid_t pid, int sig);

DESCRIPTION
       The  kill() function shall send a signal to a process or a group of processes specified by pid.  The signal to
       be sent is specified by sig and is either one from the list given in <signal.h> or 0. If sig is  0  (the  null
       signal),  error checking is performed but no signal is actually sent. The null signal can be used to check the
       validity of pid.

       For a process to have permission to send a signal to a process designated by pid, unless the  sending  process
       has appropriate privileges, the real or effective user ID of the sending process shall match the real or saved
       set-user-ID of the receiving process.

       If pid is greater than 0, sig shall be sent to the process whose process ID is equal to pid.

       If  pid  is  0,  sig  shall  be sent to all processes (excluding an unspecified set of system processes) whose
       process group ID is equal to the process group ID of the sender, and for which the process has  permission  to
       send a signal.

       If  pid is −1, sig shall be sent to all processes (excluding an unspecified set of system processes) for which
       the process has permission to send that signal.

       If pid is negative, but not −1, sig shall be sent to all processes (excluding an  unspecified  set  of  system
       processes) whose process group ID is equal to the absolute value of pid, and for which the process has permis‐
       sion to send a signal.

       If  the  value  of  pid  causes sig to be generated for the sending process, and if sig is not blocked for the
       calling thread and if no other thread has sig unblocked or is waiting in a sigwait() function for sig,  either
       sig or at least one pending unblocked signal shall be delivered to the sending thread before kill() returns.

       The  user  ID tests described above shall not be applied when sending SIGCONT to a process that is a member of
       the same session as the sending process.

       An implementation that provides extended security controls may impose further implementation-defined  restric‐
       tions  on  the sending of signals, including the null signal. In particular, the system may deny the existence
       of some or all of the processes specified by pid.

       The kill() function is successful if the process has permission to send sig to any of the processes  specified
       by pid.  If kill() fails, no signal shall be sent.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The kill() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the sig argument is an invalid or unsupported signal number.

       EPERM  The process does not have permission to send the signal to any receiving process.

       ESRCH  No process or process group can be found corresponding to that specified by pid.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  semantics  for  permission  checking for kill() differed between System V and most other implementations,
       such as Version 7 or 4.3 BSD. The semantics chosen for this  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008  agree  with  System  V.
       Specifically,  a  set-user-ID  process cannot protect itself against signals (or at least not against SIGKILL)
       unless it changes its real user ID.  This choice allows the user who starts an application to send it  signals
       even if it changes its effective user ID.  The other semantics give more power to an application that wants to
       protect itself from the user who ran it.

       Some  implementations  provide  semantic  extensions  to the kill() function when the absolute value of pid is
       greater than some maximum, or otherwise special, value. Negative values are a flag to kill().  Since most  im‐
       plementations  return  [ESRCH] in this case, this behavior is not included in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, al‐
       though a conforming implementation could provide such an extension.

       The unspecified processes to which a signal cannot be sent may include the scheduler or init.

       There was initially strong sentiment to specify that, if pid specifies that a signal be sent  to  the  calling
       process  and that signal is not blocked, that signal would be delivered before kill() returns. This would per‐
       mit a process to call kill() and be guaranteed that the call never return. However, historical implementations
       that provide only the signal() function make only the weaker guarantee in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, because
       they only deliver one signal each time a process enters the kernel.  Modifications to such implementations  to
       support the sigaction() function generally require entry to the kernel following return from a signal-catching
       function,  in  order to restore the signal mask. Such modifications have the effect of satisfying the stronger
       requirement, at least when sigaction() is used, but not necessarily when signal() is used. The standard devel‐
       opers considered making the stronger requirement except when signal() is used, but felt this would be unneces‐
       sarily complex. Implementors are encouraged to meet the stronger requirement whenever possible.  In  practice,
       the  weaker  requirement is the same, except in the rare case when two signals arrive during a very short win‐
       dow. This reasoning also applies to a similar requirement for sigprocmask().

       In 4.2 BSD, the SIGCONT signal can be sent to any descendant process regardless of  user-ID  security  checks.
       This allows a job control shell to continue a job even if processes in the job have altered their user IDs (as
       in the su command). In keeping with the addition of the concept of sessions, similar functionality is provided
       by  allowing  the  SIGCONT signal to be sent to any process in the same session regardless of user ID security
       checks. This is less restrictive than BSD in the sense that ancestor processes (in the same session)  can  now
       be  the  recipient.  It is more restrictive than BSD in the sense that descendant processes that form new ses‐
       sions are now subject to the user ID checks. A similar relaxation of security is not necessary for  the  other
       job  control  signals  since those signals are typically sent by the terminal driver in recognition of special
       characters being typed; the terminal driver bypasses all security checks.

       In secure implementations, a process may be restricted from sending a signal to a process having  a  different
       security  label.   In  order to prevent the existence or nonexistence of a process from being used as a covert
       channel, such processes should appear nonexistent to the sender; that is, [ESRCH] should be  returned,  rather
       than [EPERM], if pid refers only to such processes.

       Existing  implementations vary on the result of a kill() with pid indicating an inactive process (a terminated
       process that has not been waited for by its parent). Some indicate success on such a call (subject to  permis‐
       sion  checking), while others give an error of [ESRCH].  Since the definition of process lifetime in this vol‐
       ume of POSIX.1‐2008 covers inactive processes, the [ESRCH] error as described is inappropriate in  this  case.
       In particular, this means that an application cannot have a parent process check for termination of a particu‐
       lar child with kill().  (Usually this is done with the null signal; this can be done reliably with waitpid().)

       There  is  some  belief that the name kill() is misleading, since the function is not always intended to cause
       process termination. However, the name is common to all historical implementations, and any change would be in
       conflict with the goal of minimal changes to existing application code.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getpid(), raise(), setsid(), sigaction(), sigqueue(), wait()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>, <sys_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                KILL(3P)
