LMHOSTS(5)                                   File Formats and Conventions                                  LMHOSTS(5)

NAME
       lmhosts - The Samba NetBIOS hosts file

SYNOPSIS
       lmhosts is the samba(7) NetBIOS name to IP address mapping file.

DESCRIPTION
       This file is part of the samba(7) suite.

       lmhosts is the Samba NetBIOS name to IP address mapping file. It is very similar to the /etc/hosts file
       format, except that the hostname component must correspond to the NetBIOS naming format.

FILE FORMAT
       It is an ASCII file containing one line for NetBIOS name. The two fields on each line are separated from each
       other by white space. Any entry beginning with '#' is ignored. Each line in the lmhosts file contains the
       following information:

              •   IP Address - in dotted decimal format.

              •   NetBIOS Name - This name format is a maximum fifteen character host name, with an optional trailing
                  '#' character followed by the NetBIOS name type as two hexadecimal digits.

                  If the trailing '#' is omitted then the given IP address will be returned for all names that match
                  the given name, whatever the NetBIOS name type in the lookup.

       An example follows:

           #
           # Sample Samba lmhosts file.
           #
           192.9.200.1    TESTPC
           192.9.200.20   NTSERVER#20
           192.9.200.21   SAMBASERVER

       Contains three IP to NetBIOS name mappings. The first and third will be returned for any queries for the names
       "TESTPC" and "SAMBASERVER" respectively, whatever the type component of the NetBIOS name requested.

       The second mapping will be returned only when the "0x20" name type for a name "NTSERVER" is queried. Any other
       name type will not be resolved.

       The default location of the lmhosts file is in the same directory as the smb.conf(5) file.

FILES
       lmhosts is loaded from the configuration directory. This is usually /etc/samba or /usr/local/samba/lib.

VERSION
       This man page is part of version 4.19.4 of the Samba suite.

SEE ALSO
       smbclient(1), smb.conf(5), and smbpasswd(8)

AUTHOR
       The original Samba software and related utilities were created by Andrew Tridgell. Samba is now developed by
       the Samba Team as an Open Source project similar to the way the Linux kernel is developed.

Samba 4.19.4                                          01/27/2026                                           LMHOSTS(5)
