LN(1P)                                        POSIX Programmer's Manual                                        LN(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ln — link files

SYNOPSIS
       ln [−fs] [−L|−P] source_file target_file

       ln [−fs] [−L|−P] source_file... target_dir

DESCRIPTION
       In  the  first synopsis form, the ln utility shall create a new directory entry (link) at the destination path
       specified by the target_file operand. If the −s option is specified, a symbolic link shall be created for  the
       file  specified  by  the source_file operand. This first synopsis form shall be assumed when the final operand
       does not name an existing directory; if more than two operands are specified and the final is not an  existing
       directory, an error shall result.

       In  the second synopsis form, the ln utility shall create a new directory entry (link), or if the −s option is
       specified a symbolic link, for each file specified by a source_file operand, at a destination path in the  ex‐
       isting directory named by target_dir.

       If  the  last  operand  specifies  an existing file of a type not specified by the System Interfaces volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008, the behavior is implementation-defined.

       The corresponding destination path for each source_file shall be the concatenation  of  the  target  directory
       pathname, a <slash> character if the target directory pathname did not end in a <slash>, and the last pathname
       component  of  the source_file.  The second synopsis form shall be assumed when the final operand names an ex‐
       isting directory.

       For each source_file:

        1. If the destination path exists and was created by a previous step, it  is  unspecified  whether  ln  shall
           write  a  diagnostic message to standard error, do nothing more with the current source_file, and go on to
           any remaining source_files; or will continue processing the current source_file.  If the destination  path
           exists:

            a. If  the  −f option is not specified, ln shall write a diagnostic message to standard error, do nothing
               more with the current source_file, and go on to any remaining source_files.

            b. If destination names the same directory entry as the current source_file ln shall write  a  diagnostic
               message  to  standard  error, do nothing more with the current source_file, and go on to any remaining
               source_files.

            c. Actions shall be performed equivalent to the unlink() function defined in the System Interfaces volume
               of POSIX.1‐2008, called using destination as the path argument. If this fails for any reason, ln shall
               write a diagnostic message to standard error, do nothing more with the current source_file, and go  on
               to any remaining source_files.

        2. If  the  −s  option  is  specified,  actions  shall be performed equivalent to the symlink() function with
           source_file as the path1 argument and the destination path as the path2 argument. The ln utility shall  do
           nothing more with source_file and shall go on to any remaining files.

        3. If source_file is a symbolic link:

            a. If  the  −P  option  is in effect, actions shall be performed equivalent to the linkat() function with
               source_file as the path1 argument, the destination path as the path2 argument, AT_FDCWD as the fd1 and
               fd2 arguments, and zero as the flag argument.

            b. If the −L option is in effect, actions shall be performed equivalent to  the  linkat()  function  with
               source_file as the path1 argument, the destination path as the path2 argument, AT_FDCWD as the fd1 and
               fd2 arguments, and AT_SYMLINK_FOLLOW as the flag argument.

           The ln utility shall do nothing more with source_file and shall go on to any remaining files.

        4. Actions  shall  be  performed equivalent to the link() function defined in the System Interfaces volume of
           POSIX.1‐2008 using source_file as the path1 argument, and the destination path as the path2 argument.

OPTIONS
       The ln utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of  POSIX.1‐2008,  Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −f        Force existing destination pathnames to be removed to allow the link.

       −L        For  each  source_file  operand that names a file of type symbolic link, create a (hard) link to the
                 file referenced by the symbolic link.

       −P        For each source_file operand that names a file of type symbolic link, create a (hard)  link  to  the
                 symbolic link itself.

       −s        Create  symbolic  links  instead of hard links. If the −s option is specified, the −L and −P options
                 shall be silently ignored.

       Specifying more than one of the mutually-exclusive options −L and −P shall not be  considered  an  error.  The
       last  option  specified  shall determine the behavior of the utility (unless the −s option causes it to be ig‐
       nored).

       If the −s option is not specified and neither a −L nor a −P option is specified, it is  implementation-defined
       which of the −L and −P options will be used as the default.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       source_file
                 A  pathname  of  a  file to be linked. If the −s option is specified, no restrictions on the type of
                 file or on its existence shall be made. If the −s option is not specified, whether a  directory  can
                 be linked is implementation-defined.

       target_file
                 The pathname of the new directory entry to be created.

       target_dir
                 A pathname of an existing directory in which the new directory entries are created.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of ln:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    All the specified files were linked successfully.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS section does not require ln −f a b to remove b if a subsequent link operation would
       fail.

       Some  historic versions of ln (including the one specified by the SVID) unlink the destination file, if it ex‐
       ists, by default. If the mode does not permit writing, these versions prompt for confirmation before  attempt‐
       ing the unlink. In these versions the −f option causes ln not to attempt to prompt for confirmation.

       This  allows  ln  to succeed in creating links when the target file already exists, even if the file itself is
       not writable (although the directory must be).  Early proposals specified this functionality.

       This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not allow the ln utility to unlink existing destination paths by default  for
       the following reasons:

        *  The  ln  utility has historically been used to provide locking for shell applications, a usage that is in‐
           compatible with ln unlinking the destination path by default. There was no corresponding technical  advan‐
           tage to adding this functionality.

        *  This  functionality gave ln the ability to destroy the link structure of files, which changes the histori‐
           cal behavior of ln.

        *  This functionality is easily replicated with a combination of rm and ln.

        *  It is not historical practice in many systems; BSD and BSD-derived systems do not support  this  behavior.
           Unfortunately,  whichever  behavior  is selected can cause scripts written expecting the other behavior to
           fail.

        *  It is preferable that ln perform in the same manner as the link() function, which does not permit the tar‐
           get to exist already.

       This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 retains the −f option to provide support for shell scripts depending on  the  SVID
       semantics.  It seems likely that shell scripts would not be written to handle prompting by ln and would there‐
       fore have specified the −f option.

       The −f option is an undocumented feature of many historical versions of the ln utility,  allowing  linking  to
       directories. These versions require modification.

       Early proposals of this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 also required a −i option, which behaved like the −i options in
       cp  and  mv,  prompting for confirmation before unlinking existing files. This was not historical practice for
       the ln utility and has been omitted.

       The −L and −P options allow for implementing both common behaviors of the ln utility. Earlier versions of this
       standard did not specify these options and required the behavior now described for the −L option. Many systems
       by default or as an alternative provided a non-conforming ln utility with the behavior now described  for  the
       −P  option.  Since  applications  could not rely on ln following links in practice, the −L and −P options were
       added to specify the desired behavior for the application.

       The −L and −P options are ignored when −s is specified in order to allow an alias to be created to  alter  the
       default  behavior  when creating hard links (for example, alias ln='ln −L').  They serve no purpose when −s is
       specified, since source_file is then just a string to be used as the contents of the created symbolic link and
       need not exist as a file.

       The specification ensures that ln a a with or without the −f option will not unlink the file a.  Earlier  ver‐
       sions of this standard were unclear in this case.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chmod, find, pax, rm

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, link(), unlink()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                  LN(1P)
