LOCALEDEF(1P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 LOCALEDEF(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       localedef — define locale environment

SYNOPSIS
       localedef [−c] [−f charmap] [−i sourcefile] [−u code_set_name] name

DESCRIPTION
       The localedef utility shall convert source definitions for locale categories into a format usable by the func‐
       tions  and  utilities  whose operational behavior is determined by the setting of the locale environment vari‐
       ables defined in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale.  It is implementation-defined
       whether users have the capability to create new locales, in addition to those supplied by the  implementation.
       If  the  symbolic  constant  POSIX2_LOCALEDEF is defined, the system supports the creation of new locales.  On
       XSI-conformant systems, the symbolic constant POSIX2_LOCALEDEF shall be defined.

       The utility shall read source definitions for one or more locale categories belonging to the same locale  from
       the file named in the −i option (if specified) or from standard input.

       The  name operand identifies the target locale. The utility shall support the creation of public, or generally
       accessible locales, as well as private, or restricted-access locales. Implementations may restrict  the  capa‐
       bility to create or modify public locales to users with appropriate privileges.

       Each  category source definition shall be identified by the corresponding environment variable name and termi‐
       nated by an END category-name statement. The following categories shall be supported. In addition,  the  input
       may contain source for implementation-defined categories.

       LC_CTYPE  Defines character classification and case conversion.

       LC_COLLATE
                 Defines collation rules.

       LC_MONETARY
                 Defines the format and symbols used in formatting of monetary information.

       LC_NUMERIC
                 Defines the decimal delimiter, grouping, and grouping symbol for non-monetary numeric editing.

       LC_TIME   Defines the format and content of date and time information.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Defines the format and values of affirmative and negative responses.

OPTIONS
       The localedef utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syn‐
       tax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −c        Create permanent output even if warning messages have been issued.

       −f charmap
                 Specify  the pathname of a file containing a mapping of character symbols and collating element sym‐
                 bols to actual character encodings.  The format of the charmap is described in the Base  Definitions
                 volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.4, Character Set Description File.  The application shall ensure
                 that this option is specified if symbolic names (other than collating symbols defined in  a  collat‐
                 ing-symbol  keyword)  are used. If the −f option is not present, an implementation-defined character
                 mapping shall be used.

       −i inputfile
                 The pathname of a file containing the source definitions. If this option is not present, source def‐
                 initions shall be read from standard input. The format of the inputfile is described in the Base De‐
                 finitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 7.3, Locale Definition.

       −u code_set_name
                 Specify the name of a codeset used as the target mapping of character symbols and collating  element
                 symbols  whose  encoding  values  are defined in terms of the ISO/IEC 10646‐1:2000 standard position
                 constant values.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       name      Identifies the locale; see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale for a  de‐
                 scription  of  the use of this name. If the name contains one or more <slash> characters, name shall
                 be interpreted as a pathname where the created locale definitions shall be stored. If name does  not
                 contain any <slash> characters, the interpretation of the name is implementation-defined and the lo‐
                 cale  shall  be  public. The ability to create public locales in this way may be restricted to users
                 with appropriate privileges. (As a consequence of specifying one name, although  several  categories
                 can be processed in one execution, only categories belonging to the same locale can be processed.)

STDIN
       Unless the −i option is specified, the standard input shall be a text file containing one or more locale cate‐
       gory source definitions, as described in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 7.3, Locale Def‐
       inition.   When  lines  are continued using the escape character mechanism, there is no limit to the length of
       the accumulated continued line.

INPUT FILES
       The character set mapping file specified as the charmap option-argument is described in the  Base  Definitions
       volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.4, Character Set Description File.  If a locale category source definition
       contains a copy statement, as defined in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7,  Locale,  and
       the copy statement names a valid, existing locale, then localedef shall behave as if the source definition had
       contained a valid category source definition for the named locale.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of localedef:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_COLLATE
                 (This variable has no affect on localedef; the POSIX locale is used for this category.)

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).  This  vari‐
                 able has no affect on the processing of localedef input data; the POSIX locale is used for this pur‐
                 pose, regardless of the value of this variable.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The utility shall report all categories successfully processed, in an unspecified format.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The format of the created output is unspecified. If the name operand does not contain a <slash>, the existence
       of an output file for the locale is unspecified.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       When the −u option is used, the code_set_name option-argument shall be interpreted  as  an  implementation-de‐
       fined name of a codeset to which the ISO/IEC 10646‐1:2000 standard position constant values shall be converted
       via  an  implementation-defined  method.  Both  the ISO/IEC 10646‐1:2000 standard position constant values and
       other formats (decimal, hexadecimal, or octal) shall be valid as encoding values within the charmap file.  The
       codeset represented by the implementation-defined name can be any codeset that is supported by the implementa‐
       tion.

       When  conflicts  occur between the charmap specification of <code_set_name>, <mb_cur_max>, or <mb_cur_min> and
       the implementation-defined interpretation of these respective items for the codeset represented by the −u  op‐
       tion-argument code_set_name, the result is unspecified.

       When  conflicts  occur  between  the charmap encoding values specified for symbolic names of characters of the
       portable character set and the implementation-defined assignment of character encoding values, the  result  is
       unspecified.

       If  a  non-printable  character  in the charmap has a width specified that is not −1, the result will be unde‐
       fined.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    No errors occurred and the locales were successfully created.

        1    Warnings occurred and the locales were successfully created.

        2    The locale specification exceeded implementation limits or the coded character set or sets used were not
             supported by the implementation, and no locale was created.

        3    The capability to create new locales is not supported by the implementation.

       >3    Warnings or errors occurred and no output was created.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       If an error is detected, no permanent output shall be created.

       If warnings occur, permanent output shall be created if the −c option was specified. The following  conditions
       shall cause warning messages to be issued:

        *  If  a  symbolic name not found in the charmap file is used for the descriptions of the LC_CTYPE or LC_COL‐
           LATE categories (for other categories, this shall be an error condition).

        *  If the number of operands to the order keyword exceeds the {COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX} limit.

        *  If optional keywords not supported by the implementation are present in the source.

       Other implementation-defined conditions may also cause warnings.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The charmap definition is optional, and is contained outside the locale  definition.  This  allows  both  com‐
       pletely self-defined source files, and generic sources (applicable to more than one codeset). To aid portabil‐
       ity,  all charmap definitions must use the same symbolic names for the portable character set. As explained in
       the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.4, Character Set Description File,  it  is  implementa‐
       tion-defined  whether  or  not  users  or applications can provide additional character set description files.
       Therefore, the −f option might be operable only when an implementation-defined charmap is named.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The output produced by the localedef utility is implementation-defined. The name operand is used  to  identify
       the  specific  locale.  (As a consequence, although several categories can be processed in one execution, only
       categories belonging to the same locale can be processed.)

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       locale

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.4, Character Set Description File, Chapter  7,  Locale,
       Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           LOCALEDEF(1P)
