LOCKF(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     LOCKF(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       lockf — record locking on files

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int lockf(int fildes, int function, off_t size);

DESCRIPTION
       The  lockf() function shall lock sections of a file with advisory-mode locks. Calls to lockf() from threads in
       other processes which attempt to lock the locked file section shall either return an error value or block  un‐
       til  the section becomes unlocked. All the locks for a process are removed when the process terminates. Record
       locking with lockf() shall be supported for regular files and may be supported for other files.

       The fildes argument is an open file descriptor. To establish a lock with this function,  the  file  descriptor
       shall be opened with write-only permission (O_WRONLY) or with read/write permission (O_RDWR).

       The  function  argument  is a control value which specifies the action to be taken. The permissible values for
       function are defined in <unistd.h> as follows:
                                ┌──────────┬──────────────────────────────────────────────┐
                                │ Function │                 Description                  │
                                ├──────────┼──────────────────────────────────────────────┤
                                │ F_ULOCK  │ Unlock locked sections.                      │
                                │ F_LOCK   │ Lock a section for exclusive use.            │
                                │ F_TLOCK  │ Test and lock a section for exclusive use.   │
                                │ F_TEST   │ Test a section for locks by other processes. │
                                └──────────┴──────────────────────────────────────────────┘

       F_TEST shall detect if a lock by another process is present on the specified section.

       F_LOCK and F_TLOCK shall both lock a section of a file if the section is available.

       F_ULOCK shall remove locks from a section of the file.

       The size argument is the number of contiguous bytes to be locked or unlocked.  The section to be locked or un‐
       locked starts at the current offset in the file and extends forward for a positive size or backward for a neg‐
       ative size (the preceding bytes up to but not including the current offset). If size is 0,  the  section  from
       the  current offset through the largest possible file offset shall be locked (that is, from the current offset
       through the present or any future end-of-file). An area need not be allocated to the file to be locked because
       locks may exist past the end-of-file.

       The sections locked with F_LOCK or F_TLOCK may, in whole or in part, contain or be contained by  a  previously
       locked  section  for  the same process. When this occurs, or if adjacent locked sections would occur, the sec‐
       tions shall be combined into a single locked section. If the request would cause the number of locks to exceed
       a system-imposed limit, the request shall fail.

       F_LOCK and F_TLOCK requests differ only by the action taken if the section  is  not  available.  F_LOCK  shall
       block  the calling thread until the section is available. F_TLOCK shall cause the function to fail if the sec‐
       tion is already locked by another process.

       File locks shall be released on first close by the locking process of any file descriptor for the file.

       F_ULOCK requests may release (wholly or in part) one or more locked sections controlled by the process. Locked
       sections shall be unlocked starting at the current file offset through size bytes or  to  the  end-of-file  if
       size is (off_t)0. When all of a locked section is not released (that is, when the beginning or end of the area
       to  be  unlocked falls within a locked section), the remaining portions of that section shall remain locked by
       the process. Releasing the center portion of a locked section shall cause the remaining locked  beginning  and
       end  portions  to  become  two separate locked sections. If the request would cause the number of locks in the
       system to exceed a system-imposed limit, the request shall fail.

       A potential for deadlock occurs if the threads of a process controlling a locked section are  blocked  by  ac‐
       cessing  a  locked  section of another process. If the system detects that deadlock would occur, lockf() shall
       fail with an [EDEADLK] error.

       The interaction between fcntl() and lockf() locks is unspecified.

       Blocking on a section shall be interrupted by any signal.

       An F_ULOCK request in which size is non-zero and the offset of the last byte of the requested section  is  the
       maximum  value for an object of type off_t, when the process has an existing lock in which size is 0 and which
       includes the last byte of the requested section, shall be treated as a request to unlock from the start of the
       requested section with a size equal to 0. Otherwise, an F_ULOCK request shall attempt to unlock only  the  re‐
       quested section.

       Attempting to lock a section of a file that is associated with a buffered stream produces unspecified results.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  lockf() shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return −1, set errno to indicate an
       error, and existing locks shall not be changed.

ERRORS
       The lockf() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid open file descriptor; or function is F_LOCK or F_TLOCK and fildes is
              not a valid file descriptor open for writing.

       EACCES or EAGAIN
              The function argument is F_TLOCK or F_TEST and the section is already locked by another process.

       EDEADLK
              The function argument is F_LOCK and a deadlock is detected.

       EINTR  A signal was caught during execution of the function.

       EINVAL The function argument is not one of F_LOCK, F_TLOCK, F_TEST, or F_ULOCK; or size plus the current  file
              offset is less than 0.

       EOVERFLOW
              The  offset  of  the  first, or if size is not 0 then the last, byte in the requested section cannot be
              represented correctly in an object of type off_t.

       The lockf() function may fail if:

       EAGAIN The function argument is F_LOCK or F_TLOCK and the file is mapped with mmap().

       EDEADLK or ENOLCK
              The function argument is F_LOCK, F_TLOCK, or F_ULOCK, and the request would cause the number  of  locks
              to exceed a system-imposed limit.

       EOPNOTSUPP or EINVAL
              The implementation does not support the locking of files of the type indicated by the fildes argument.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Locking a Portion of a File
       In  the following example, a file named /home/cnd/mod1 is being modified. Other processes that use locking are
       prevented from changing it during this process. Only the first 10000 bytes are locked, and the lock call fails
       if another process has any part of this area locked already.

           #include <fcntl.h>
           #include <unistd.h>

           int fildes;
           int status;
           ...
           fildes = open("/home/cnd/mod1", O_RDWR);
           status = lockf(fildes, F_TLOCK, (off_t)10000);

APPLICATION USAGE
       Record-locking should not be used in combination with the fopen(), fread(), fwrite(), and  other  stdio  func‐
       tions. Instead, the more primitive, non-buffered functions (such as open()) should be used. Unexpected results
       may  occur  in  processes  that  do buffering in the user address space. The process may later read/write data
       which is/was locked. The stdio functions are the most common source of unexpected buffering.

       The alarm() function may be used to provide a timeout facility in applications requiring it.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       alarm(), chmod(), close(), creat(), fcntl(), fopen(), mmap(), open(), read(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               LOCKF(3P)
