LOGGER(1P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    LOGGER(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       logger — log messages

SYNOPSIS
       logger string...

DESCRIPTION
       The  logger  utility saves a message, in an unspecified manner and format, containing the string operands pro‐
       vided by the user. The messages are expected to be evaluated later by personnel performing system  administra‐
       tion tasks.

       It is implementation-defined whether messages written in locales other than the POSIX locale are effective.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       string    One  of the string arguments whose contents are concatenated together, in the order specified, sepa‐
                 rated by single <space> characters.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of logger:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error. (This means diagnostics from logger to the user or application, not diag‐
                 nostic messages that the user is sending to the system administrator.)

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       Unspecified.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       This utility allows logging of information for later use by a system administrator or programmer in  determin‐
       ing  why  non-interactive utilities have failed. The locations of the saved messages, their format, and reten‐
       tion period are all unspecified. There is no method for a conforming application to read messages, once  writ‐
       ten.

EXAMPLES
       A  batch  application, running non-interactively, tries to read a configuration file and fails; it may attempt
       to notify the system administrator with:

           logger myname: unable to read file foo. [timestamp]

RATIONALE
       The standard developers believed strongly that some method of alerting administrators to errors was necessary.
       The obvious example is a batch utility, running non-interactively, that is unable to  read  its  configuration
       files  or that is unable to create or write its results file. However, the standard developers did not wish to
       define the format or delivery mechanisms as they have historically been (and will  probably  continue  to  be)
       very  system-specific,  as  well  as  involving  functionality  clearly  outside  the  scope of this volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008.

       The text with LC_MESSAGES about diagnostic messages means diagnostics from logger to the user or  application,
       not diagnostic messages that the user is sending to the system administrator.

       Multiple string arguments are allowed, similar to echo, for ease-of-use.

       Like the utilities mailx and lp, logger is admittedly difficult to test. This was not deemed sufficient justi‐
       fication  to  exclude  these utilities from this volume of POSIX.1‐2008. It is also arguable that they are, in
       fact, testable, but that the tests themselves are not portable.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       lp, mailx, write

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              LOGGER(1P)
