LONGJMP(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   LONGJMP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       longjmp — non-local goto

SYNOPSIS
       #include <setjmp.h>

       void longjmp(jmp_buf env, int val);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The longjmp() function shall restore the environment saved by the most recent invocation of  setjmp()  in  the
       same process, with the corresponding jmp_buf argument. If the most recent invocation of setjmp() with the cor‐
       responding  jmp_buf occurred in another thread, or if there is no such invocation, or if the function contain‐
       ing the invocation of setjmp() has terminated execution in the interim, or if the invocation of  setjmp()  was
       within  the  scope  of  an identifier with variably modified type and execution has left that scope in the in‐
       terim, the behavior is undefined.  It is unspecified whether longjmp() restores the signal  mask,  leaves  the
       signal mask unchanged, or restores it to its value at the time setjmp() was called.

       All  accessible objects have values, and all other components of the abstract machine have state (for example,
       floating-point status flags and open files), as of the time longjmp() was called, except that  the  values  of
       objects of automatic storage duration are unspecified if they meet all the following conditions:

        *  They are local to the function containing the corresponding setjmp() invocation.

        *  They do not have volatile-qualified type.

        *  They are changed between the setjmp() invocation and longjmp() call.

       As it bypasses the usual function call and return mechanisms, longjmp() shall execute correctly in contexts of
       interrupts,  signals,  and  any  of their associated functions. However, if longjmp() is invoked from a nested
       signal handler (that is, from a function invoked as a result of a signal raised during the handling of another
       signal), the behavior is undefined.

       The effect of a call to longjmp() where initialization of the jmp_buf structure was not performed in the call‐
       ing thread is undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       After longjmp() is completed, program execution continues as if the corresponding invocation of  setjmp()  had
       just returned the value specified by val.  The longjmp() function shall not cause setjmp() to return 0; if val
       is 0, setjmp() shall return 1.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Applications  whose  behavior  depends  on the value of the signal mask should not use longjmp() and setjmp(),
       since their effect on the signal mask is unspecified, but should instead use the siglongjmp() and  sigsetjmp()
       functions (which can save and restore the signal mask under application control).

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       setjmp(), sigaction(), siglongjmp(), sigsetjmp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <setjmp.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             LONGJMP(3P)
