LP(1P)                                        POSIX Programmer's Manual                                        LP(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       lp — send files to a printer

SYNOPSIS
       lp [−c] [−d dest] [−n copies] [−msw] [−o option]... [−t title] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  lp utility shall copy the input files to an output destination in an unspecified manner. The default out‐
       put destination should be to a hardcopy device, such as a printer or microfilm recorder,  that  produces  non-
       volatile,  human-readable  documents.  If  such a device is not available to the application, or if the system
       provides no such device, the lp utility shall exit with a non-zero exit status.

       The actual writing to the output device may occur some time after the lp utility  successfully  exits.  During
       the  portion  of the writing that corresponds to each input file, the implementation shall guarantee exclusive
       access to the device.

       The lp utility shall associate a unique request ID with each request.

       Normally, a banner page is produced to separate and identify each print job. This page may  be  suppressed  by
       implementation-defined conditions, such as an operator command or one of the −o option values.

OPTIONS
       The  lp  utility  shall  conform  to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −c        Exit only after further access to any of the input files is no longer required. The application  can
                 then  safely  delete or modify the files without affecting the output operation. Normally, files are
                 not copied, but are linked whenever possible. If the −c option is not given, then the user should be
                 careful not to remove any of the files before the request has  been  printed  in  its  entirety.  It
                 should also be noted that in the absence of the −c option, any changes made to the named files after
                 the request is made but before it is printed may be reflected in the printed output.  On some imple‐
                 mentations, −c may be on by default.

       −d dest   Specify  a  string  that  names  the destination (dest).  If dest is a printer, the request shall be
                 printed only on that specific printer. If dest is a class of printers, the request shall be  printed
                 on  the first available printer that is a member of the class. Under certain conditions (printer un‐
                 availability, file space limitation, and so on), requests for specific destinations need not be  ac‐
                 cepted. Destination names vary between systems.

                 If  −d is not specified, and neither the LPDEST nor PRINTER environment variable is set, an unspeci‐
                 fied destination is used. The −d dest option shall take precedence over LPDEST, which in turn  shall
                 take  precedence over PRINTER.  Results are undefined when dest contains a value that is not a valid
                 destination name.

       −m        Send mail (see mailx) after the files have been printed. By default, no mail  is  sent  upon  normal
                 completion of the print request.

       −n copies Write  copies number of copies of the files, where copies is a positive decimal integer. The methods
                 for producing multiple copies and for arranging the multiple copies when multiple file operands  are
                 used  are  unspecified,  except that each file shall be output as an integral whole, not interleaved
                 with portions of other files.

       −o option Specify printer-dependent or class-dependent options.  Several such  options  may  be  collected  by
                 specifying the −o option more than once.

       −s        Suppress messages from lp.

       −t title  Write title on the banner page of the output.

       −w        Write  a message on the user's terminal after the files have been printed. If the user is not logged
                 in, then mail shall be sent instead.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of a file to be output. If no file operands are specified, or if a file operand  is  '−',
                 the standard input shall be used. If a file operand is used, but the −c option is not specified, the
                 process  performing the writing to the output device may have user and group permissions that differ
                 from that of the process invoking lp.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used only if no file operands are specified, or if a file operand is '−'.  See the
       INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files shall be text files.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of lp:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       LC_TIME   Determine the format and contents of date and time strings displayed in the lp banner page, if any.

       LPDEST    Determine the destination. If the LPDEST environment variable is not set,  the  PRINTER  environment
                 variable shall be used. The −d dest option takes precedence over LPDEST.  Results are undefined when
                 −d is not specified and LPDEST contains a value that is not a valid destination name.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       PRINTER   Determine  the output device or destination. If the LPDEST and PRINTER environment variables are not
                 set, an unspecified output device is used. The −d dest option and the  LPDEST  environment  variable
                 shall  take  precedence over PRINTER.  Results are undefined when −d is not specified, LPDEST is un‐
                 set, and PRINTER contains a value that is not a valid device or destination name.

       TZ        Determine the timezone used to calculate date and time strings displayed in the lp banner  page,  if
                 any. If TZ is unset or null, an unspecified default timezone shall be used.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The lp utility shall write a request ID to the standard output, unless −s is specified. The format of the mes‐
       sage  is unspecified. The request ID can be used on systems supporting the historical cancel and lpstat utili‐
       ties.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    All input files were processed successfully.

       >0    No output device was available, or an error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The pr and fold utilities can be used to achieve reasonable formatting for the implementation's  default  page
       size.

       A  conforming  application can use one of the file operands only with the −c option or if the file is publicly
       readable and guaranteed to be available at the time of printing. This is because POSIX.1‐2008 gives the imple‐
       mentation the freedom to queue up the request for printing at some later time  by  a  different  process  that
       might not be able to access the file.

EXAMPLES
        1. To print file file:

               lp −c file

        2. To print multiple files with headers:

               pr file1 file2 | lp

RATIONALE
       The  lp  utility  was designed to be a basic version of a utility that is already available in many historical
       implementations. The standard developers considered that it should be implementable simply as:

           cat "$@" > /dev/lp

       after appropriate processing of options, if that is how the implementation chose to do it and if exclusive ac‐
       cess could be granted (so that two users did not write to the device simultaneously).  Although in the  future
       the standard developers may add other options to this utility, it should always be able to execute with no op‐
       tions or operands and send the standard input to an unspecified output device.

       This  volume of POSIX.1‐2008 makes no representations concerning the format of the printed output, except that
       it must be ``human-readable'' and ``non-volatile''.  Thus, writing by default to a disk or  tape  drive  or  a
       display terminal would not qualify. (Such destinations are not prohibited when −d dest, LPDEST, or PRINTER are
       used, however.)

       This  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008 is worded such that a ``print job'' consisting of multiple input files, possibly
       in multiple copies, is guaranteed to print so that any one file is not intermixed with another, but  there  is
       no statement that all the files or copies have to print out together.

       The −c option may imply a spooling operation, but this is not required. The utility can be implemented to wait
       until  the printer is ready and then wait until it is finished. Because of that, there is no attempt to define
       a queuing mechanism (priorities, classes of output, and so on).

       On some historical systems, the request ID reported on the STDOUT can be used to later cancel or find the sta‐
       tus of a request using utilities not defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

       Although the historical System V lp and BSD lpr utilities have provided similar functionality, they used  dif‐
       ferent  names  for the environment variable specifying the destination printer.  Since the name of the utility
       here is lp, LPDEST (used by the System V lp utility) was given precedence over PRINTER (used by  the  BSD  lpr
       utility). Since environments of users frequently contain one or the other environment variable, the lp utility
       is  required to recognize both. If this was not done, many applications would send output to unexpected output
       devices when users moved from system to system.

       Some have commented that lp has far too little functionality to make it worthwhile. Requests have proposed ad‐
       ditional options or operands or both that added functionality. The requests included:

        *  Wording requiring the output to be ``hardcopy''

        *  A requirement for multiple printers

        *  Options for supporting various page-description languages

       Given that a compliant system is not required to even have a printer, placing further  restrictions  upon  the
       behavior  of the printer is not useful. Since hardcopy format is so application-dependent, it is difficult, if
       not impossible, to select a reasonable subset of functionality that should be required on all  compliant  sys‐
       tems.

       The  term  unspecified is used in this section in lieu of implementation-defined as most known implementations
       would not be able to make definitive statements in their conformance documents; the  existence  and  usage  of
       printers is very dependent on how the system administrator configures each individual system.

       Since the default destination, device type, queuing mechanisms, and acceptable forms of input are all unspeci‐
       fied, usage guidelines for what a conforming application can do are as follows:

        *  Use  the  command in a pipeline, or with −c, so that there are no permission problems and the files can be
           safely deleted or modified.

        *  Limit output to text files of reasonable line lengths and printable characters and include no  device-spe‐
           cific  formatting  information, such as a page description language. The meaning of ``reasonable'' in this
           context can only be answered as a quality-of-implementation issue, but it should be apparent from histori‐
           cal usage patterns in the industry and the locale. The pr and fold utilities can be used to  achieve  rea‐
           sonable formatting for the default page size of the implementation.

       Alternatively, the application can arrange its installation in such a way that it requires the system adminis‐
       trator or operator to provide the appropriate information on lp options and environment variable values.

       At  a  minimum, having this utility in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 tells the industry that conforming applica‐
       tions require a means to print output and provides at least a command name and LPDEST routing  mechanism  that
       can  be  used for discussions between vendors, application developers, and users. The use of ``should'' in the
       DESCRIPTION of lp clearly shows the intent of the standard developers, even if they cannot  mandate  that  all
       systems (such as laptops) have printers.

       This  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008 does not specify what the ownership of the process performing the writing to the
       output device may be. If −c is not used, it is unspecified whether the process performing the writing  to  the
       output  device  has  permission to read file if there are any restrictions in place on who may read file until
       after it is printed. Also, if −c is not used, the results of deleting file before it is printed  are  unspeci‐
       fied.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mailx

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                  LP(1P)
