LSEEK(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     LSEEK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       lseek — move the read/write file offset

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       off_t lseek(int fildes, off_t offset, int whence);

DESCRIPTION
       The lseek() function shall set the file offset for the open file description associated with the file descrip‐
       tor fildes, as follows:

        *  If whence is SEEK_SET, the file offset shall be set to offset bytes.

        *  If whence is SEEK_CUR, the file offset shall be set to its current location plus offset.

        *  If whence is SEEK_END, the file offset shall be set to the size of the file plus offset.

       The symbolic constants SEEK_SET, SEEK_CUR, and SEEK_END are defined in <unistd.h>.

       The behavior of lseek() on devices which are incapable of seeking is implementation-defined.  The value of the
       file offset associated with such a device is undefined.

       The lseek() function shall allow the file offset to be set beyond the end of the existing data in the file. If
       data  is  later written at this point, subsequent reads of data in the gap shall return bytes with the value 0
       until data is actually written into the gap.

       The lseek() function shall not, by itself, extend the size of a file.

       If fildes refers to a shared memory object, the result of the lseek() function is unspecified.

       If fildes refers to a typed memory object, the result of the lseek() function is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the resulting offset, as measured in bytes from the beginning of the  file,  shall
       be  returned.  Otherwise,  −1 shall be returned, errno shall be set to indicate the error, and the file offset
       shall remain unchanged.

ERRORS
       The lseek() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not an open file descriptor.

       EINVAL The whence argument is not a proper value, or the resulting file offset would be negative for a regular
              file, block special file, or directory.

       EOVERFLOW
              The resulting file offset would be a value which cannot be represented correctly in an object  of  type
              off_t.

       ESPIPE The fildes argument is associated with a pipe, FIFO, or socket.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  ISO C standard includes the functions fgetpos() and fsetpos(), which work on very large files by use of a
       special positioning type.

       Although lseek() may position the file offset beyond the end of the file, this function does not itself extend
       the size of the file. While the only function in POSIX.1‐2008 that may directly extend the size of the file is
       write(), truncate(), and ftruncate(), several functions originally derived from the ISO C  standard,  such  as
       fwrite(), fprintf(), and so on, may do so (by causing calls on write()).

       An invalid file offset that would cause [EINVAL] to be returned may be both implementation-defined and device-
       dependent  (for example, memory may have few invalid values). A negative file offset may be valid for some de‐
       vices in some implementations.

       The POSIX.1‐1990 standard did not specifically prohibit lseek() from returning a negative  offset.  Therefore,
       an  application was required to clear errno prior to the call and check errno upon return to determine whether
       a return value of (off_t)−1 is a negative offset or an indication of an error condition. The standard develop‐
       ers did not wish to require this action on the part of a conforming application, and chose to require that er‐
       rno be set to [EINVAL] when the resulting file offset would be negative for  a  regular  file,  block  special
       file, or directory.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       open()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               LSEEK(3P)
