MALLOC(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    MALLOC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       malloc — a memory allocator

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void *malloc(size_t size);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The malloc() function shall allocate unused space for an object whose size in bytes is specified by  size  and
       whose value is unspecified.

       The  order and contiguity of storage allocated by successive calls to malloc() is unspecified. The pointer re‐
       turned if the allocation succeeds shall be suitably aligned so that it may be assigned to  a  pointer  to  any
       type  of  object  and then used to access such an object in the space allocated (until the space is explicitly
       freed or reallocated). Each such allocation shall yield a pointer to an object disjoint from any other object.
       The pointer returned points to the start (lowest byte address) of the allocated space. If the space cannot  be
       allocated,  a  null pointer shall be returned. If the size of the space requested is 0, the behavior is imple‐
       mentation-defined: the value returned shall be either a null pointer or a unique pointer.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion with size not equal to 0, malloc() shall return a pointer to the  allocated  space.
       If size is 0, either a null pointer or a unique pointer that can be successfully passed to free() shall be re‐
       turned. Otherwise, it shall return a null pointer and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The malloc() function shall fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient storage space is available.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       calloc(), free(), getrlimit(), posix_memalign(), realloc()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              MALLOC(3P)
