MAN(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       MAN(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       man — display system documentation

SYNOPSIS
       man [−k] name...

DESCRIPTION
       The  man  utility  shall  write information about each of the name operands. If name is the name of a standard
       utility, man at a minimum shall write a message describing the syntax used by the standard  utility,  its  op‐
       tions,  and operands. If more information is available, the man utility shall provide it in an implementation-
       defined manner.

       An implementation may provide information for values of name other than the standard utilities. Standard util‐
       ities that are listed as optional and that are not supported by the implementation either shall cause a  brief
       message  indicating that fact to be displayed or shall cause a full display of information as described previ‐
       ously.

OPTIONS
       The man utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008,  Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −k      Interpret name operands as keywords to be used in searching a utilities summary database that contains
               a  brief  purpose entry for each standard utility and write lines from the summary database that match
               any of the keywords. The keyword search shall produce results that are the equivalent of the output of
               the following command:

                   grep −Ei '
                   name
                   name
                   ...
                   ' summary-database

               This assumes that the summary-database is a text file with a single entry per line; this  organization
               is  not required and the example using grep −Ei is merely illustrative of the type of search intended.
               The purpose entry to be included in the database shall consist of a terse description of  the  purpose
               of the utility.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       name      A  keyword  or  the name of a standard utility. When −k is not specified and name does not represent
                 one of the standard utilities, the results are unspecified.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of man:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example,  single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and in the summary database).
                 The value of LC_CTYPE need not affect the format of the information written about the name operands.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       PAGER     Determine an output filtering command for writing the output to a terminal. Any string acceptable as
                 a command_string operand to the sh −c command shall be valid. When standard output is a terminal de‐
                 vice, the reference page output shall be piped through the command. If the PAGER variable is null or
                 not set, the command shall be either more or another paginator utility documented in the system doc‐
                 umentation.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The  man utility shall write text describing the syntax of the utility name, its options and its operands, or,
       when −k is specified, lines from the summary database. The format of this text is implementation-defined.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used for diagnostic messages, and may also be used for informational  messages  of
       unspecified format.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       It  is recognized that the man utility is only of minimal usefulness as specified. The opinion of the standard
       developers was strongly divided as to how much or how little information man should be  required  to  provide.
       They  considered,  however,  that the provision of some portable way of accessing documentation would aid user
       portability. The arguments against a fuller specification were:

        *  Large quantities of documentation should not be required on a system that does not have excess disk space.

        *  The current manual system does not present information in a manner that greatly aids user portability.

        *  A ``better help system'' is currently an area in which vendors feel that they can add value to their POSIX
           implementations.

       The −f option was considered, but due to implementation differences, it was not included  in  this  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008.

       The description was changed to be more specific about what has to be displayed for a utility. The standard de‐
       velopers considered it insufficient to allow a display of only the synopsis without giving a short description
       of what each option and operand does.

       The  ``purpose''  entry  to  be included in the database can be similar to the section title (less the numeric
       prefix) from this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 for each utility.  These titles are similar to those used in histori‐
       cal systems for this purpose.

       See mailx for rationale concerning the default paginator.

       The caveat in the LC_CTYPE description was added because it is not a requirement that an  implementation  pro‐
       vide  reference  pages for all of its supported locales on each system; changing LC_CTYPE does not necessarily
       translate the reference page into another language. This is equivalent to the current state of LC_MESSAGES  in
       POSIX.1‐2008—locale-specific messages are not yet a requirement.

       The  historical MANPATH variable is not included in POSIX because no attempt is made to specify naming conven‐
       tions for reference page files, nor even to mandate that they are files at all. On some  implementations  they
       could  be a true database, a hypertext file, or even fixed strings within the man executable. The standard de‐
       velopers considered the portability of reference pages to be outside  their  scope  of  work.  However,  users
       should  be aware that MANPATH is implemented on a number of historical systems and that it can be used to tai‐
       lor the search pattern for reference pages from the various categories (utilities,  functions,  file  formats,
       and  so on) when the system administrator reveals the location and conventions for reference pages on the sys‐
       tem.

       The keyword search can rely on at least the text of the section titles from these  utility  descriptions,  and
       the implementation may add more keywords. The term ``section titles'' refers to the strings such as:

           man — Display system documentation
           ps — Report process status

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       more

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 MAN(1P)
