MBLEN(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     MBLEN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mblen — get number of bytes in a character

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int mblen(const char *s, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       If s is not a null pointer, mblen() shall determine the number of bytes constituting the character pointed  to
       by s.  Except that the shift state of mbtowc() is not affected, it shall be equivalent to:

           mbtowc((wchar_t *)0, s, n);

       The implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 calls mblen().

       The  behavior  of this function is affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale. For a state-depen‐
       dent encoding, this function shall be placed into its initial state by a call for which its character  pointer
       argument,  s, is a null pointer. Subsequent calls with s as other than a null pointer shall cause the internal
       state of the function to be altered as necessary. A call with s as a null pointer shall cause this function to
       return a non-zero value if encodings have state dependency, and 0 otherwise.  If  the  implementation  employs
       special  bytes  to  change  the  shift state, these bytes shall not produce separate wide-character codes, but
       shall be grouped with an adjacent character. Changing the LC_CTYPE category causes the  shift  state  of  this
       function to be unspecified.

       The mblen() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       If  s  is a null pointer, mblen() shall return a non-zero or 0 value, if character encodings, respectively, do
       or do not have state-dependent encodings. If s is not a null pointer, mblen() shall  either  return  0  (if  s
       points  to the null byte), or return the number of bytes that constitute the character (if the next n or fewer
       bytes form a valid character), or return −1 (if they do not form a valid character) and may set errno to indi‐
       cate the error.  In no case shall the value returned be greater than n or the value of the {MB_CUR_MAX} macro.

ERRORS
       The mblen() function may fail if:

       EILSEQ An invalid character sequence is detected.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mbtowc(), mbstowcs(), wctomb(), wcstombs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               MBLEN(3P)
