MBRLEN(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    MBRLEN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mbrlen — get number of bytes in a character (restartable)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t mbrlen(const char *restrict s, size_t n,
           mbstate_t *restrict ps);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       If s is not a null pointer, mbrlen() shall determine the number of bytes constituting the character pointed to
       by s.  It shall be equivalent to:

           mbstate_t internal;
           mbrtowc(NULL, s, n, ps != NULL ? ps : &internal);

       If ps is a null pointer, the mbrlen() function shall use its own internal mbstate_t object, which is  initial‐
       ized  at  program  start-up  to the initial conversion state. Otherwise, the mbstate_t object pointed to by ps
       shall be used to completely describe the current conversion state of the associated  character  sequence.  The
       implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 calls mbrlen().

       The behavior of this function is affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale.

       The mbrlen() function need not be thread-safe if called with a NULL ps argument.

       The mbrlen() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       The mbrlen() function shall return the first of the following that applies:

       0           If the next n or fewer bytes complete the character that corresponds to the null wide character.

       positive    If the next n or fewer bytes complete a valid character; the value returned shall be the number of
                   bytes that complete the character.

       (size_t)−2  If  the  next n bytes contribute to an incomplete but potentially valid character, and all n bytes
                   have been processed. When n has at least the value of the {MB_CUR_MAX} macro, this case  can  only
                   occur  if  s points at a sequence of redundant shift sequences (for implementations with state-de‐
                   pendent encodings).

       (size_t)−1  If an encoding error occurs, in which case the next n or fewer bytes do not contribute to  a  com‐
                   plete  and  valid  character.  In  this case, [EILSEQ] shall be stored in errno and the conversion
                   state is undefined.

ERRORS
       The mbrlen() function shall fail if:

       EILSEQ An invalid character sequence is detected.

       The mbrlen() function may fail if:

       EINVAL ps points to an object that contains an invalid conversion state.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mbsinit(), mbrtowc()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              MBRLEN(3P)
