MBRTOWC(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   MBRTOWC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mbrtowc — convert a character to a wide-character code (restartable)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t mbrtowc(wchar_t *restrict pwc, const char *restrict s,
           size_t n, mbstate_t *restrict ps);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       If s is a null pointer, the mbrtowc() function shall be equivalent to the call:

           mbrtowc(NULL, "", 1, ps)

       In this case, the values of the arguments pwc and n are ignored.

       If s is not a null pointer, the mbrtowc() function shall inspect at most n bytes beginning at the byte pointed
       to by s to determine the number of bytes needed to complete  the  next  character  (including  any  shift  se‐
       quences). If the function determines that the next character is completed, it shall determine the value of the
       corresponding  wide  character  and  then,  if pwc is not a null pointer, shall store that value in the object
       pointed to by pwc.  If the corresponding wide character is the null wide character, the  resulting  state  de‐
       scribed shall be the initial conversion state.

       If  ps  is  a null pointer, the mbrtowc() function shall use its own internal mbstate_t object, which shall be
       initialized at program start-up to the initial conversion state. Otherwise, the mbstate_t object pointed to by
       ps shall be used to completely describe the current conversion state of the associated character sequence. The
       implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 calls mbrtowc().

       The behavior of this function is affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale.

       The mbrtowc() function need not be thread-safe if called with a NULL ps argument.

       The mbrtowc() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       The mbrtowc() function shall return the first of the following that applies:

       0           If the next n or fewer bytes complete the character that corresponds to the  null  wide  character
                   (which is the value stored).

       between 1 and n inclusive
                   If the next n or fewer bytes complete a valid character (which is the value stored); the value re‐
                   turned shall be the number of bytes that complete the character.

       (size_t)−2  If  the  next n bytes contribute to an incomplete but potentially valid character, and all n bytes
                   have been processed (no value is stored). When n has at least the value of the {MB_CUR_MAX} macro,
                   this case can only occur if s points at a sequence of redundant shift sequences  (for  implementa‐
                   tions with state-dependent encodings).

       (size_t)−1  If  an  encoding error occurs, in which case the next n or fewer bytes do not contribute to a com‐
                   plete and valid character (no value is stored). In this case, [EILSEQ] shall be  stored  in  errno
                   and the conversion state is undefined.

ERRORS
       The mbrtowc() function shall fail if:

       EILSEQ An invalid character sequence is detected.

       The mbrtowc() function may fail if:

       EINVAL ps points to an object that contains an invalid conversion state.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mbsinit(), mbsrtowcs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             MBRTOWC(3P)
