MBSINIT(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   MBSINIT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mbsinit — determine conversion object status

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       int mbsinit(const mbstate_t *ps);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       If ps is not a null pointer, the mbsinit() function shall determine whether the object pointed to  by  ps  de‐
       scribes an initial conversion state.

RETURN VALUE
       The mbsinit() function shall return non-zero if ps is a null pointer, or if the pointed-to object describes an
       initial conversion state; otherwise, it shall return zero.

       If  an mbstate_t object is altered by any of the functions described as ``restartable'', and is then used with
       a different character sequence, or in the other conversion direction, or with a  different  LC_CTYPE  category
       setting than on earlier function calls, the behavior is undefined.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  mbstate_t object is used to describe the current conversion state from a particular character sequence to
       a wide-character sequence (or vice versa) under the rules of a particular setting of the LC_CTYPE category  of
       the current locale.

       The  initial  conversion  state  corresponds,  for a conversion in either direction, to the beginning of a new
       character sequence in the initial shift state. A zero valued mbstate_t object is at least one way to  describe
       an  initial  conversion state. A zero valued mbstate_t object can be used to initiate conversion involving any
       character sequence, in any LC_CTYPE category setting.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mbrlen(), mbrtowc(), mbsrtowcs(), wcrtomb(), wcsrtombs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             MBSINIT(3P)
