MBSRTOWCS(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 MBSRTOWCS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mbsnrtowcs, mbsrtowcs — convert a character string to a wide-character string (restartable)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t mbsnrtowcs(wchar_t *restrict dst, const char **restrict src,
           size_t nmc, size_t len, mbstate_t *restrict ps);
       size_t mbsrtowcs(wchar_t *restrict dst, const char **restrict src,
           size_t len, mbstate_t *restrict ps);

DESCRIPTION
       For  mbsrtowcs():  The  functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any
       conflict between the requirements described here and the ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  mbsrtowcs()  function shall convert a sequence of characters, beginning in the conversion state described
       by the object pointed to by ps, from the array indirectly pointed to by src into a sequence  of  corresponding
       wide characters. If dst is not a null pointer, the converted characters shall be stored into the array pointed
       to by dst.  Conversion continues up to and including a terminating null character, which shall also be stored.
       Conversion shall stop early in either of the following cases:

        *  A sequence of bytes is encountered that does not form a valid character.

        *  len codes have been stored into the array pointed to by dst (and dst is not a null pointer).

       Each conversion shall take place as if by a call to the mbrtowc() function.

       If dst is not a null pointer, the pointer object pointed to by src shall be assigned either a null pointer (if
       conversion  stopped  due to reaching a terminating null character) or the address just past the last character
       converted (if any). If conversion stopped due to reaching a terminating null character, and if dst  is  not  a
       null pointer, the resulting state described shall be the initial conversion state.

       If  ps  is a null pointer, the mbsrtowcs() function shall use its own internal mbstate_t object, which is ini‐
       tialized at program start-up to the initial conversion state. Otherwise, the mbstate_t object pointed to by ps
       shall be used to completely describe the current conversion state of the associated character sequence.

       The mbsnrtowcs() function shall be equivalent to the mbsrtowcs() function, except that the conversion of char‐
       acters pointed to by src is limited to at most nmc bytes (the size of the input buffer).

       The behavior of these functions shall be affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale.

       The implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of  POSIX.1‐2008  calls  these  func‐
       tions.

       The mbsnrtowcs() and mbsrtowcs() functions need not be thread-safe if called with a NULL ps argument.

       The mbsrtowcs() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       If  the  input conversion encounters a sequence of bytes that do not form a valid character, an encoding error
       occurs. In this case, these functions shall store the value of the macro [EILSEQ] in errno  and  shall  return
       (size_t)−1;  the conversion state is undefined.  Otherwise, these functions shall return the number of charac‐
       ters successfully converted, not including the terminating null (if any).

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EILSEQ An invalid character sequence is detected.

       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL ps points to an object that contains an invalid conversion state.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       iconv(), mbrtowc(), mbsinit()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           MBSRTOWCS(3P)
