MBSTOWCS(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  MBSTOWCS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mbstowcs — convert a character string to a wide-character string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       size_t mbstowcs(wchar_t *restrict pwcs, const char *restrict s,
           size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The mbstowcs() function shall convert a sequence of characters that begins in the initial shift state from the
       array pointed to by s into a sequence of corresponding wide-character codes and shall store not  more  than  n
       wide-character  codes into the array pointed to by pwcs.  No characters that follow a null byte (which is con‐
       verted into a wide-character code with value 0) shall be examined or converted. Each character shall  be  con‐
       verted as if by a call to mbtowc(), except that the shift state of mbtowc() is not affected.

       No more than n elements shall be modified in the array pointed to by pwcs.  If copying takes place between ob‐
       jects that overlap, the behavior is undefined.

       The  behavior of this function shall be affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale.  If pwcs is a
       null pointer, mbstowcs() shall return the length required to convert the entire array regardless of the  value
       of n, but no values are stored.

RETURN VALUE
       If an invalid character is encountered, mbstowcs() shall return (size_t)−1 and shall set errno to indicate the
       error.

       Otherwise,  mbstowcs()  shall  return the number of the array elements modified (or required if pwcs is null),
       not including a terminating 0 code, if any. The array shall not be zero-terminated if the value returned is n.

ERRORS
       The mbstowcs() function shall fail if:

       EILSEQ An invalid byte sequence is detected.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mblen(), mbtowc(), wctomb(), wcstombs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            MBSTOWCS(3P)
