MBTOWC(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    MBTOWC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mbtowc — convert a character to a wide-character code

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int mbtowc(wchar_t *restrict pwc, const char *restrict s, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       If s is not a null pointer, mbtowc() shall determine the number of bytes that constitute the character pointed
       to by s.  It shall then determine the wide-character code for the value of type wchar_t  that  corresponds  to
       that  character.  (The value of the wide-character code corresponding to the null byte is 0.) If the character
       is valid and pwc is not a null pointer, mbtowc() shall store the wide-character code in the object pointed  to
       by pwc.

       The  behavior  of this function is affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale. For a state-depen‐
       dent encoding, this function is placed into its initial state by a call for which its character pointer  argu‐
       ment,  s,  is  a  null  pointer. Subsequent calls with s as other than a null pointer shall cause the internal
       state of the function to be altered as necessary. A call with s as a null pointer shall cause this function to
       return a non-zero value if encodings have state dependency, and 0 otherwise.  If  the  implementation  employs
       special  bytes  to  change  the  shift state, these bytes shall not produce separate wide-character codes, but
       shall be grouped with an adjacent character. Changing the LC_CTYPE category causes the  shift  state  of  this
       function to be unspecified. At most n bytes of the array pointed to by s shall be examined.

       The implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 calls mbtowc().

       The mbtowc() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       If  s is a null pointer, mbtowc() shall return a non-zero or 0 value, if character encodings, respectively, do
       or do not have state-dependent encodings. If s is not a null pointer, mbtowc() shall either  return  0  (if  s
       points to the null byte), or return the number of bytes that constitute the converted character (if the next n
       or fewer bytes form a valid character), or return −1 and shall set errno to indicate the error (if they do not
       form a valid character).

       In no case shall the value returned be greater than n or the value of the {MB_CUR_MAX} macro.

ERRORS
       The mbtowc() function shall fail if:

       EILSEQ An invalid character sequence is detected.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mblen(), mbstowcs(), wctomb(), wcstombs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              MBTOWC(3P)
