MESG(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      MESG(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mesg — permit or deny messages

SYNOPSIS
       mesg [y|n]

DESCRIPTION
       The  mesg  utility  shall  control  whether other users are allowed to send messages via write, talk, or other
       utilities to a terminal device. The terminal device affected shall be determined by searching  for  the  first
       terminal  in  the sequence of devices associated with standard input, standard output, and standard error, re‐
       spectively. With no arguments, mesg shall report the current state without changing it. Processes with  appro‐
       priate privileges may be able to send messages to the terminal independent of the current state.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported in the POSIX locale:

       y         Grant permission to other users to send messages to the terminal device.

       n         Deny permission to other users to send messages to the terminal device.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of mesg:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written (by mesg) to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       If no operand is specified, mesg shall display the current terminal state in an unspecified format.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Receiving messages is allowed.

        1    Receiving messages is not allowed.

       >1    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  mechanism  by  which the message status of the terminal is changed is unspecified. Therefore, unspecified
       actions may cause the status of the terminal to change after mesg has successfully  completed.  These  actions
       may  include,  but are not limited to: another invocation of the mesg utility, login procedures; invocation of
       the stty utility, invocation of the chmod utility or chmod() function, and so on.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The terminal changed by mesg is that associated with the standard input, output, or  error,  rather  than  the
       controlling  terminal for the session. This is because users logged in more than once should be able to change
       any of their login terminals without having to stop the job running in those sessions.  This is not a security
       problem involving the terminals of other users because appropriate privileges would be required to affect  the
       terminal of another user.

       The  method  of  checking  each  of the first three file descriptors in sequence until a terminal is found was
       adopted from System V.

       The file /dev/tty is not specified for the terminal device because it was thought to be too restrictive. Typi‐
       cal environment changes for the n operand are that write permissions are removed for others and group from the
       appropriate device. It was decided to leave the actual description of what is done as unspecified  because  of
       potential differences between implementations.

       The  format for standard output is unspecified because of differences between historical implementations. This
       output is generally not useful to shell scripts (they can use the exit status), so exact parsing of the output
       is unnecessary.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       talk, write

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                MESG(1P)
