MKDTEMP(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   MKDTEMP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mkdtemp, mkstemp — create a unique directory or file

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       char *mkdtemp(char *template);
       int mkstemp(char *template);

DESCRIPTION
       The mkdtemp() function uses the contents of template to construct a unique directory name. The string provided
       in  template shall be a pathname ending with six trailing 'X's.  The mkdtemp() function shall replace each 'X'
       with a character from the portable filename character set. The characters are chosen such that  the  resulting
       name does not duplicate the name of an existing file at the time of a call to mkdtemp().  The unique directory
       name is used to attempt to create the directory using mode 0700 as modified by the file creation mask.

       The  mkstemp()  function shall replace the contents of the string pointed to by template by a unique pathname,
       and return a file descriptor for the file open for reading and writing. The mkstemp()  function  shall  create
       the file, and obtain a file descriptor for it, as if by a call to:

           open(pathname, O_RDWR|O_CREAT|O_EXCL, S_IRUSR|S_IWUSR)

       The  function thus prevents any possible race condition between testing whether the file exists and opening it
       for use. The string in template should look like a pathname with six trailing 'X's;  mkstemp()  replaces  each
       'X' with a character from the portable filename character set. The characters are chosen such that the result‐
       ing name does not duplicate the name of an existing file at the time of a call to mkstemp().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, the mkdtemp() function shall return a pointer to the string containing the direc‐
       tory name if it was created. Otherwise, it shall return a null pointer and shall set errno to indicate the er‐
       ror.

       Upon successful completion, the mkstemp() function shall return an open file descriptor. Otherwise,  it  shall
       return −1 if no suitable file could be created.

ERRORS
       The mkdtemp() function shall fail if:

       EACCES Search  permission  is  denied  on a component of the path prefix, or write permission is denied on the
              parent directory of the directory to be created.

       EINVAL The string pointed to by template does not end in "XXXXXX".

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path of the directory to  be  cre‐
              ated.

       EMLINK The link count of the parent directory would exceed {LINK_MAX}.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of the path prefix specified by the template argument does not name an existing directory.

       ENOSPC The  file  system  does not contain enough space to hold the contents of the new directory or to extend
              the parent directory of the new directory.

       ENOTDIR
              A component of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a  symbolic  link
              to a directory.

       EROFS  The parent directory resides on a read-only file system.

       The mkdtemp() function may fail if:

       ELOOP  More  than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path of the directory
              to be created.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The error conditions for the mkstemp() function are defined in open().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Generating a Pathname
       The  following  example creates a file with a 10-character name beginning with the characters "file" and opens
       the file for reading and writing. The value returned as the value of fd is a file descriptor  that  identifies
       the file.

           #include <stdlib.h>
           ...
           char template[] = "/tmp/fileXXXXXX";
           int fd;

           fd = mkstemp(template);

APPLICATION USAGE
       It is possible to run out of letters.

       The  mkdtemp()  and  mkstemp() functions need not check to determine whether the filename part of template ex‐
       ceeds the maximum allowable filename length.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getpid(), mkdir(), open(), tmpfile(), tmpnam()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             MKDTEMP(3P)
