MKFIFO(1P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    MKFIFO(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mkfifo — make FIFO special files

SYNOPSIS
       mkfifo [−m mode] file...

DESCRIPTION
       The mkfifo utility shall create the FIFO special files specified by the operands, in the order specified.

       For each file operand, the mkfifo utility shall perform actions equivalent to the mkfifo() function defined in
       the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, called with the following arguments:

        1. The file operand is used as the path argument.

        2. The  value of the bitwise-inclusive OR of S_IRUSR, S_IWUSR, S_IRGRP, S_IWGRP, S_IROTH, and S_IWOTH is used
           as the mode argument. (If the −m option is specified, the value of the mkfifo() mode argument is  unspeci‐
           fied, but the FIFO shall at no time have permissions less restrictive than the −m mode option-argument.)

OPTIONS
       The  mkfifo utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −m mode   Set the file permission bits of the newly-created FIFO to the specified mode value. The mode option-
                 argument shall be the same as the mode operand defined for the chmod utility. In  the  symbolic_mode
                 strings,  the  op characters '+' and '−' shall be interpreted relative to an assumed initial mode of
                 a=rw.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of the FIFO special file to be created.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of mkfifo:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    All the specified FIFO special files were created successfully.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       This utility was added to permit shell applications to create FIFO special files.

       The −m option was added to control the file mode, for consistency with the similar functionality  provided  by
       the mkdir utility.

       Early  proposals  included  a  −p  option similar to the mkdir −p option that created intermediate directories
       leading up to the FIFO specified by the final component. This was removed because it is  not  commonly  needed
       and is not common practice with similar utilities.

       The  functionality  of  mkfifo  is described substantially through a reference to the mkfifo() function in the
       System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008. For example, by default, the mode of the FIFO file  is  affected  by
       the  file  mode creation mask in accordance with the specified behavior of the mkfifo() function. In this way,
       there is less duplication of effort required for describing details of the file creation.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chmod, umask

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, mkfifo()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              MKFIFO(1P)
