MKFIFO(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    MKFIFO(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mkfifo, mkfifoat — make a FIFO special file relative to directory file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/stat.h>

       int mkfifo(const char *path, mode_t mode);
       int mkfifoat(int fd, const char *path, mode_t mode);

DESCRIPTION
       The mkfifo() function shall create a new FIFO special file named by the pathname pointed to by path.  The file
       permission bits of the new FIFO shall be initialized from mode.  The file permission bits of the mode argument
       shall be modified by the process' file creation mask.

       When bits in mode other than the file permission bits are set, the effect is implementation-defined.

       If path names a symbolic link, mkfifo() shall fail and set errno to [EEXIST].

       The  FIFO's  user  ID  shall be set to the process' effective user ID. The FIFO's group ID shall be set to the
       group ID of the parent directory or to the effective group ID of the process. Implementations shall provide  a
       way  to  initialize the FIFO's group ID to the group ID of the parent directory. Implementations may, but need
       not, provide an implementation-defined way to initialize the FIFO's group ID to the effective group ID of  the
       calling process.

       Upon  successful  completion, mkfifo() shall mark for update the last data access, last data modification, and
       last file status change timestamps of the file. Also, the last data modification and last file  status  change
       timestamps of the directory that contains the new entry shall be marked for update.

       The mkfifoat() function shall be equivalent to the mkfifo() function except in the case where path specifies a
       relative  path.  In  this case the newly created FIFO is created relative to the directory associated with the
       file descriptor fd instead of the current working  directory.  If  the  file  descriptor  was  opened  without
       O_SEARCH,  the  function shall check whether directory searches are permitted using the current permissions of
       the directory underlying the file descriptor. If the file descriptor was opened with  O_SEARCH,  the  function
       shall not perform the check.

       If mkfifoat() is passed the special value AT_FDCWD in the fd parameter, the current working directory shall be
       used and the behavior shall be identical to a call to mkfifo().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  these functions shall return 0.  Otherwise, these functions shall return −1 and
       set errno to indicate the error. If −1 is returned, no FIFO shall be created.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EACCES A component of the path prefix denies search permission, or write permission is denied  on  the  parent
              directory of the FIFO to be created.

       EEXIST The named file already exists.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of the path prefix of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOENT or ENOTDIR
              The  path  argument  contains  at  least  one  non-<slash> character and ends with one or more trailing
              <slash> characters. If path names an existing file, an [ENOENT] error shall not occur.

       ENOSPC The directory that would contain the new file cannot be extended or the file system is out of  file-al‐
              location resources.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link
              to a directory.

       EROFS  The named file resides on a read-only file system.

       The mkfifoat() function shall fail if:

       EACCES fd was not opened with O_SEARCH and the permissions of the directory underlying fd do not permit direc‐
              tory searches.

       EBADF  The path argument does not specify an absolute path and the fd argument is neither AT_FDCWD nor a valid
              file descriptor open for reading or searching.

       ENOTDIR
              The path argument is not an absolute path and fd is a file descriptor associated with  a  non-directory
              file.

       These functions may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The  length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Creating a FIFO File
       The following example shows how to create a FIFO file named /home/cnd/mod_done,  with  read/write  permissions
       for owner, and with read permissions for group and others.

           #include <sys/types.h>
           #include <sys/stat.h>

           int status;
           ...
           status = mkfifo("/home/cnd/mod_done", S_IWUSR | S_IRUSR |
               S_IRGRP | S_IROTH);

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  syntax of this function is intended to maintain compatibility with historical implementations of mknod().
       The latter function was included in the 1984 /usr/group standard but only for use  in  creating  FIFO  special
       files.  The  mknod() function was originally excluded from the POSIX.1‐1988 standard as implementation-defined
       and replaced by mkdir() and mkfifo().  The mknod() function is now included for alignment with the Single UNIX
       Specification.

       The POSIX.1‐1990 standard required that the group ID of a newly created FIFO be set to the  group  ID  of  its
       parent  directory  or  to the effective group ID of the creating process. FIPS 151‐2 required that implementa‐
       tions provide a way to have the group ID be set to the group ID of the containing directory, but did not  pro‐
       hibit  implementations  also  supporting  a  way to set the group ID to the effective group ID of the creating
       process.  Conforming applications should not assume which group ID will be used. If it matters, an application
       can use chown() to set the group ID after the FIFO is created, or determine under what conditions  the  imple‐
       mentation will set the desired group ID.

       The  purpose of the mkfifoat() function is to create a FIFO special file in directories other than the current
       working directory without exposure to race conditions. Any part of the path of a file could be changed in par‐
       allel to a call to mkfifo(), resulting in unspecified behavior. By opening a file descriptor  for  the  target
       directory  and using the mkfifoat() function it can be guaranteed that the newly created FIFO is located rela‐
       tive to the desired directory.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chmod(), mknod(), umask()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_stat.h>, <sys_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              MKFIFO(3P)
