MLOCK(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     MLOCK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mlock, munlock — lock or unlock a range of process address space (REALTIME)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/mman.h>

       int mlock(const void *addr, size_t len);
       int munlock(const void *addr, size_t len);

DESCRIPTION
       The  mlock()  function  shall  cause those whole pages containing any part of the address space of the process
       starting at address addr and continuing for len bytes to  be  memory-resident  until  unlocked  or  until  the
       process exits or execs another process image. The implementation may require that addr be a multiple of {PAGE‐
       SIZE}.

       The  munlock() function shall unlock those whole pages containing any part of the address space of the process
       starting at address addr and continuing for len bytes, regardless of how many times mlock() has been called by
       the process for any of the pages in the specified range. The implementation may require that addr be a  multi‐
       ple of {PAGESIZE}.

       If  any  of the pages in the range specified to a call to munlock() are also mapped into the address spaces of
       other processes, any locks established on those pages by another process are unaffected by the  call  of  this
       process  to munlock().  If any of the pages in the range specified by a call to munlock() are also mapped into
       other portions of the address space of the calling process outside the range specified, any locks  established
       on those pages via the other mappings are also unaffected by this call.

       Upon  successful  return  from mlock(), pages in the specified range shall be locked and memory-resident. Upon
       successful return from munlock(), pages in the specified range shall be unlocked with respect to  the  address
       space of the process. Memory residency of unlocked pages is unspecified.

       Appropriate privileges are required to lock process memory with mlock().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  the mlock() and munlock() functions shall return a value of zero. Otherwise, no
       change is made to any locks in the address space of the process, and the function shall return a value  of  −1
       and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The mlock() and munlock() functions shall fail if:

       ENOMEM Some  or  all of the address range specified by the addr and len arguments does not correspond to valid
              mapped pages in the address space of the process.

       The mlock() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN Some or all of the memory identified by the operation could not be locked when the call was made.

       The mlock() and munlock() functions may fail if:

       EINVAL The addr argument is not a multiple of {PAGESIZE}.

       The mlock() function may fail if:

       ENOMEM Locking the pages mapped by the specified range would exceed an  implementation-defined  limit  on  the
              amount of memory that the process may lock.

       EPERM  The calling process does not have appropriate privileges to perform the requested operation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, exit(), fork(), mlockall(), munmap()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_mman.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               MLOCK(3P)
