MLOCKALL(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  MLOCKALL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mlockall, munlockall — lock/unlock the address space of a process (REALTIME)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/mman.h>

       int mlockall(int flags);
       int munlockall(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The  mlockall()  function  shall cause all of the pages mapped by the address space of a process to be memory-
       resident until unlocked or until the process exits or execs another process image. The flags  argument  deter‐
       mines  whether  the  pages  to be locked are those currently mapped by the address space of the process, those
       that are mapped in the future, or both. The flags argument is constructed from the bitwise-inclusive OR of one
       or more of the following symbolic constants, defined in <sys/mman.h>:

       MCL_CURRENT Lock all of the pages currently mapped into the address space of the process.

       MCL_FUTURE  Lock all of the pages that become mapped into the address space of the process in the future, when
                   those mappings are established.

       If MCL_FUTURE is specified, and the automatic locking of future  mappings  eventually  causes  the  amount  of
       locked memory to exceed the amount of available physical memory or any other implementation-defined limit, the
       behavior  is  implementation-defined.  The manner in which the implementation informs the application of these
       situations is also implementation-defined.

       The munlockall() function shall unlock all currently mapped pages of the address space  of  the  process.  Any
       pages  that  become  mapped  into  the  address space of the process after a call to munlockall() shall not be
       locked, unless there is an intervening call to mlockall() specifying MCL_FUTURE or a subsequent call to mlock‐
       all() specifying MCL_CURRENT. If pages mapped into the address space of the process are also mapped  into  the
       address  spaces  of  other  processes  and  are  locked by those processes, the locks established by the other
       processes shall be unaffected by a call by this process to munlockall().

       Upon successful return from the mlockall() function that specifies MCL_CURRENT, all currently mapped pages  of
       the address space of the process shall be memory-resident and locked.  Upon return from the munlockall() func‐
       tion, all currently mapped pages of the address space of the process shall be unlocked with respect to the ad‐
       dress space of the process.  The memory residency of unlocked pages is unspecified.

       Appropriate privileges are required to lock process memory with mlockall().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  the  mlockall() function shall return a value of zero. Otherwise, no additional
       memory shall be locked, and the function shall return a value of −1 and set errno to indicate the  error.  The
       effect of failure of mlockall() on previously existing locks in the address space is unspecified.

       If  it is supported by the implementation, the munlockall() function shall always return a value of zero. Oth‐
       erwise, the function shall return a value of −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The mlockall() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN Some or all of the memory identified by the operation could not be locked when the call was made.

       EINVAL The flags argument is zero, or includes unimplemented flags.

       The mlockall() function may fail if:

       ENOMEM Locking all of the pages currently mapped into the address space of the process would exceed an  imple‐
              mentation-defined limit on the amount of memory that the process may lock.

       EPERM  The calling process does not have appropriate privileges to perform the requested operation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, exit(), fork(), mlock(), munmap()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_mman.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            MLOCKALL(3P)
