MMAP(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      MMAP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mmap — map pages of memory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/mman.h>

       void *mmap(void *addr, size_t len, int prot, int flags,
           int fildes, off_t off);

DESCRIPTION
       The mmap() function shall establish a mapping between an address space of a process and a memory object.

       The mmap() function shall be supported for the following memory objects:

        *  Regular files

        *  Shared memory objects

        *  Typed memory objects

       Support for any other type of file is unspecified.

       The format of the call is as follows:

           pa=mmap(addr, len, prot, flags, fildes, off);

       The  mmap()  function  shall establish a mapping between the address space of the process at an address pa for
       len bytes to the memory object represented by the file descriptor fildes at offset  off  for  len  bytes.  The
       value  of  pa is an implementation-defined function of the parameter addr and the values of flags, further de‐
       scribed below. A successful mmap() call shall return pa as its result. The address range starting  at  pa  and
       continuing  for  len bytes shall be legitimate for the possible (not necessarily current) address space of the
       process. The range of bytes starting at off and continuing for len bytes shall be legitimate for the  possible
       (not necessarily current) offsets in the memory object represented by fildes.

       If  fildes  represents  a  typed  memory  object  opened  with either the POSIX_TYPED_MEM_ALLOCATE flag or the
       POSIX_TYPED_MEM_ALLOCATE_CONTIG flag, the memory object to be mapped shall be that portion of the typed memory
       object allocated by the implementation as specified below. In this case, if off is non-zero, the  behavior  of
       mmap()  is  undefined. If fildes refers to a valid typed memory object that is not accessible from the calling
       process, mmap() shall fail.

       The mapping established by mmap() shall replace any previous mappings for those  whole  pages  containing  any
       part of the address space of the process starting at pa and continuing for len bytes.

       If  the  size  of  the mapped file changes after the call to mmap() as a result of some other operation on the
       mapped file, the effect of references to portions of the mapped region that correspond  to  added  or  removed
       portions of the file is unspecified.

       If len is zero, mmap() shall fail and no mapping shall be established.

       The  parameter  prot determines whether read, write, execute, or some combination of accesses are permitted to
       the data being mapped. The prot shall be either PROT_NONE or the bitwise-inclusive OR of one or  more  of  the
       other flags in the following table, defined in the <sys/mman.h> header.
                                     ┌───────────────────┬──────────────────────────┐
                                     │ Symbolic Constant │       Description        │
                                     ├───────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
                                     │ PROT_READ         │ Data can be read.        │
                                     │ PROT_WRITE        │ Data can be written.     │
                                     │ PROT_EXEC         │ Data can be executed.    │
                                     │ PROT_NONE         │ Data cannot be accessed. │
                                     └───────────────────┴──────────────────────────┘

       If  an  implementation  cannot  support  the combination of access types specified by prot, the call to mmap()
       shall fail.

       An implementation may permit accesses other than those specified by prot; however,  the  implementation  shall
       not  permit  a  write  to  succeed  where  PROT_WRITE  has  not been set and shall not permit any access where
       PROT_NONE alone has been set. The implementation  shall  support  at  least  the  following  values  of  prot:
       PROT_NONE,  PROT_READ, PROT_WRITE, and the bitwise-inclusive OR of PROT_READ and PROT_WRITE. The file descrip‐
       tor fildes shall have been opened with read permission, regardless of the  protection  options  specified.  If
       PROT_WRITE is specified, the application shall ensure that it has opened the file descriptor fildes with write
       permission unless MAP_PRIVATE is specified in the flags parameter as described below.

       The  parameter  flags provides other information about the handling of the mapped data.  The value of flags is
       the bitwise-inclusive OR of these options, defined in <sys/mman.h>:
                                      ┌───────────────────┬─────────────────────────┐
                                      │ Symbolic Constant │       Description       │
                                      ├───────────────────┼─────────────────────────┤
                                      │ MAP_SHARED        │ Changes are shared.     │
                                      │ MAP_PRIVATE       │ Changes are private.    │
                                      │ MAP_FIXED         │ Interpret addr exactly. │
                                      └───────────────────┴─────────────────────────┘

       It is implementation-defined whether MAP_FIXED shall be supported.  MAP_FIXED shall be supported  on  XSI-con‐
       formant systems.

       MAP_SHARED and MAP_PRIVATE describe the disposition of write references to the memory object. If MAP_SHARED is
       specified,  write references shall change the underlying object. If MAP_PRIVATE is specified, modifications to
       the mapped data by the calling process shall be visible only to the calling process and shall not  change  the
       underlying  object.   It is unspecified whether modifications to the underlying object done after the MAP_PRI‐
       VATE mapping is established are visible through the MAP_PRIVATE mapping. Either MAP_SHARED or MAP_PRIVATE  can
       be specified, but not both. The mapping type is retained across fork().

       The  state  of synchronization objects such as mutexes, semaphores, barriers, and conditional variables placed
       in shared memory mapped with MAP_SHARED becomes undefined when the last region in any process  containing  the
       synchronization object is unmapped.

       When  fildes  represents  a  typed  memory  object opened with either the POSIX_TYPED_MEM_ALLOCATE flag or the
       POSIX_TYPED_MEM_ALLOCATE_CONTIG flag, mmap() shall, if there are enough resources available, map len bytes al‐
       located from the corresponding typed memory object which were not previously allocated to any process  in  any
       processor  that may access that typed memory object. If there are not enough resources available, the function
       shall fail. If fildes represents a typed memory object opened with the  POSIX_TYPED_MEM_ALLOCATE_CONTIG  flag,
       these  allocated bytes shall be contiguous within the typed memory object. If fildes represents a typed memory
       object opened with the POSIX_TYPED_MEM_ALLOCATE flag, these allocated bytes may be composed of  non-contiguous
       fragments  within  the typed memory object. If fildes represents a typed memory object opened with neither the
       POSIX_TYPED_MEM_ALLOCATE_CONTIG flag nor the POSIX_TYPED_MEM_ALLOCATE flag, len bytes starting at  offset  off
       within  the  typed  memory  object are mapped, exactly as when mapping a file or shared memory object. In this
       case, if two processes map an area of typed memory using the same off and len values and using  file  descrip‐
       tors  that  refer to the same memory pool (either from the same port or from a different port), both processes
       shall map the same region of storage.

       When MAP_FIXED is set in the flags argument, the implementation is informed that the  value  of  pa  shall  be
       addr,  exactly.  If  MAP_FIXED is set, mmap() may return MAP_FAILED and set errno to [EINVAL].  If a MAP_FIXED
       request is successful, the mapping established by mmap() replaces any previous mappings for the pages  in  the
       range [pa,pa+len) of the process.

       When  MAP_FIXED  is not set, the implementation uses addr in an implementation-defined manner to arrive at pa.
       The pa so chosen shall be an area of the address space that the implementation deems suitable for a mapping of
       len bytes to the file. All implementations interpret an addr value of 0 as granting  the  implementation  com‐
       plete freedom in selecting pa, subject to constraints described below. A non-zero value of addr is taken to be
       a  suggestion  of a process address near which the mapping should be placed. When the implementation selects a
       value for pa, it never places a mapping at address 0, nor does it replace any extant mapping.

       If MAP_FIXED is specified and addr is non-zero, it shall have the same remainder as the off parameter,  modulo
       the  page  size as returned by sysconf() when passed _SC_PAGESIZE or _SC_PAGE_SIZE. The implementation may re‐
       quire that off is a multiple of the page size. If MAP_FIXED is specified, the implementation may require  that
       addr  is a multiple of the page size. The system performs mapping operations over whole pages. Thus, while the
       parameter len need not meet a size or alignment constraint, the system shall include, in  any  mapping  opera‐
       tion, any partial page specified by the address range starting at pa and continuing for len bytes.

       The  system  shall  always zero-fill any partial page at the end of an object. Further, the system shall never
       write out any modified portions of the last page of an object which are beyond its end.  References within the
       address range starting at pa and continuing for len bytes to whole pages following the end of an object  shall
       result in delivery of a SIGBUS signal.

       An implementation may generate SIGBUS signals when a reference would cause an error in the mapped object, such
       as out-of-space condition.

       The  mmap() function shall add an extra reference to the file associated with the file descriptor fildes which
       is not removed by a subsequent close() on that file descriptor. This reference shall be removed when there are
       no more mappings to the file.

       The last data access timestamp of the mapped file may be marked for update at any time between the mmap() call
       and the corresponding munmap() call. The initial read or write reference to a mapped region  shall  cause  the
       file's last data access timestamp to be marked for update if it has not already been marked for update.

       The last data modification and last file status change timestamps of a file that is mapped with MAP_SHARED and
       PROT_WRITE  shall  be  marked for update at some point in the interval between a write reference to the mapped
       region and the next call to msync() with MS_ASYNC or MS_SYNC for that portion of the file by any process.   If
       there  is  no  such  call  and if the underlying file is modified as a result of a write reference, then these
       timestamps shall be marked for update at some time after the write reference.

       There may be implementation-defined limits on the number of memory regions that can be mapped (per process  or
       per system).

       If  such a limit is imposed, whether the number of memory regions that can be mapped by a process is decreased
       by the use of shmat() is implementation-defined.

       If mmap() fails for reasons other than [EBADF], [EINVAL], or [ENOTSUP], some of the mappings  in  the  address
       range starting at addr and continuing for len bytes may have been unmapped.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the mmap() function shall return the address at which the mapping was placed (pa);
       otherwise, it shall return a value of MAP_FAILED and set errno to indicate the error. The symbol MAP_FAILED is
       defined in the <sys/mman.h> header. No successful return from mmap() shall return the value MAP_FAILED.

ERRORS
       The mmap() function shall fail if:

       EACCES The fildes argument is not open for read, regardless of the protection specified, or fildes is not open
              for write and PROT_WRITE was specified for a MAP_SHARED type mapping.

       EAGAIN The mapping could not be locked in memory, if required by mlockall(), due to a lack of resources.

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid open file descriptor.

       EINVAL The value of len is zero.

       EINVAL The value of flags is invalid (neither MAP_PRIVATE nor MAP_SHARED is set).

       EMFILE The number of mapped regions would exceed an implementation-defined limit (per process or per system).

       ENODEV The fildes argument refers to a file whose type is not supported by mmap().

       ENOMEM MAP_FIXED  was specified, and the range [addr,addr+len) exceeds that allowed for the address space of a
              process; or, if MAP_FIXED was not specified and there is insufficient room in the address space to  ef‐
              fect the mapping.

       ENOMEM The  mapping  could  not  be locked in memory, if required by mlockall(), because it would require more
              space than the system is able to supply.

       ENOMEM Not enough unallocated memory resources remain in the typed memory object designated by fildes to allo‐
              cate len bytes.

       ENOTSUP
              MAP_FIXED or MAP_PRIVATE was specified in the flags argument and the implementation  does  not  support
              this functionality.

                   The implementation does not support the combination of accesses requested in the prot argument.

       ENXIO  Addresses in the range [off,off+len) are invalid for the object specified by fildes.

       ENXIO  MAP_FIXED  was  specified  in flags and the combination of addr, len, and off is invalid for the object
              specified by fildes.

       ENXIO  The fildes argument refers to a typed memory object that is not accessible from the calling process.

       EOVERFLOW
              The file is a regular file and the value of off plus len exceeds the offset maximum established in  the
              open file description associated with fildes.

       The mmap() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The addr argument (if MAP_FIXED was specified) or off is not a multiple of the page size as returned by
              sysconf(), or is considered invalid by the implementation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Use of mmap() may reduce the amount of memory available to other memory allocation functions.

       Use  of  MAP_FIXED  may  result  in  unspecified  behavior in further use of malloc() and shmat().  The use of
       MAP_FIXED is discouraged, as it may prevent an implementation from making the most effective use of resources.
       Most implementations require that off and addr are multiples of the page size as returned by sysconf().

       The application must ensure correct synchronization when using mmap() in conjunction with any other  file  ac‐
       cess method, such as read() and write(), standard input/output, and shmat().

       The  mmap()  function  allows  access to resources via address space manipulations, instead of read()/write().
       Once a file is mapped, all a process has to do to access it is use the data at the address to which  the  file
       was  mapped.  So, using pseudo-code to illustrate the way in which an existing program might be changed to use
       mmap(), the following:

           fildes = open(...)
           lseek(fildes, some_offset)
           read(fildes, buf, len)
           /* Use data in buf. */

       becomes:

           fildes = open(...)
           address = mmap(0, len, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE, fildes, some_offset)
           /* Use data at address. */

RATIONALE
       After considering several other alternatives, it was decided to adopt the mmap() definition found in SVR4  for
       mapping  memory objects into process address spaces. The SVR4 definition is minimal, in that it describes only
       what has been built, and what appears to be necessary for a general and portable mapping facility.

       Note that while mmap() was first designed for mapping files, it is actually a general-purpose  mapping  facil‐
       ity. It can be used to map any appropriate object, such as memory, files, devices, and so on, into the address
       space of a process.

       When  a  mapping is established, it is possible that the implementation may need to map more than is requested
       into the address space of the process because of hardware requirements. An application, however, cannot  count
       on this behavior. Implementations that do not use a paged architecture may simply allocate a common memory re‐
       gion  and  return the address of it; such implementations probably do not allocate any more than is necessary.
       References past the end of the requested area are unspecified.

       If an application requests a mapping that would overlay existing mappings in the process, it might  be  desir‐
       able  that  an  implementation  detect  this  and  inform the application. However, the default, portable (not
       MAP_FIXED) operation does not overlay existing mappings. On the other hand, if the program specifies  a  fixed
       address mapping (which requires some implementation knowledge to determine a suitable address, if the function
       is  supported  at  all),  then  the  program is presumed to be successfully managing its own address space and
       should be trusted when it asks to map over existing data structures. Furthermore, it is also desirable to make
       as few system calls as possible, and it might be considered onerous to require an munmap() before an mmap() to
       the same address range. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 specifies that the new mappings replace any existing  map‐
       pings, following existing practice in this regard.

       It  is  not  expected that all hardware implementations are able to support all combinations of permissions at
       all addresses.  Implementations are required to disallow write access to mappings without write permission and
       to disallow access to mappings without any access permission. Other than these  restrictions,  implementations
       may allow access types other than those requested by the application. For example, if the application requests
       only  PROT_WRITE,  the implementation may also allow read access. A call to mmap() fails if the implementation
       cannot support allowing all the access requested by the application. For example, some implementations  cannot
       support  a  request  for both write access and execute access simultaneously. All implementations must support
       requests for no access, read access, write access, and both read and write access.  Strictly  conforming  code
       must  only  rely on the required checks. These restrictions allow for portability across a wide range of hard‐
       ware.

       The MAP_FIXED address treatment is likely to fail for non-page-aligned values and for certain architecture-de‐
       pendent address ranges.  Conforming implementations cannot count on being able to choose  address  values  for
       MAP_FIXED without utilizing non-portable, implementation-defined knowledge. Nonetheless, MAP_FIXED is provided
       as a standard interface conforming to existing practice for utilizing such knowledge when it is available.

       Similarly, in order to allow implementations that do not support virtual addresses, support for directly spec‐
       ifying  any mapping addresses via MAP_FIXED is not required and thus a conforming application may not count on
       it.

       The MAP_PRIVATE function can be implemented efficiently when memory protection  hardware  is  available.  When
       such  hardware  is not available, implementations can implement such ``mappings'' by simply making a real copy
       of the relevant data into process private memory, though this tends to behave similarly to read().

       The function has been defined to allow for many different models of using shared memory. However, all uses are
       not equally portable across all machine architectures. In particular, the mmap() function allows the system as
       well as the application to specify the address at which to map a specific region of a memory object. The  most
       portable  way to use the function is always to let the system choose the address, specifying NULL as the value
       for the argument addr and not to specify MAP_FIXED.

       If it is intended that a particular region of a memory object be mapped at the same  address  in  a  group  of
       processes (on machines where this is even possible), then MAP_FIXED can be used to pass in the desired mapping
       address.  The system can still be used to choose the desired address if the first such mapping is made without
       specifying MAP_FIXED, and then the resulting mapping address can be passed to subsequent processes for them to
       pass in via MAP_FIXED. The availability of a specific address range cannot be guaranteed, in general.

       The mmap() function can be used to map a region of memory that is larger than the current size of the  object.
       Memory  access  within  the  mapping but beyond the current end of the underlying objects may result in SIGBUS
       signals being sent to the process. The reason for this is that the size of the object can  be  manipulated  by
       other  processes  and  can  change at any moment. The implementation should tell the application that a memory
       reference is outside the object where this can be detected; otherwise, written data may be lost and read  data
       may not reflect actual data in the object.

       Note that references beyond the end of the object do not extend the object as the new end cannot be determined
       precisely by most virtual memory hardware. Instead, the size can be directly manipulated by ftruncate().

       Process  memory locking does apply to shared memory regions, and the MEMLOCK_FUTURE argument to mlockall() can
       be relied upon to cause new shared memory regions to be automatically locked.

       Existing implementations of mmap() return the value −1 when unsuccessful. Since the casting of this  value  to
       type  void * cannot be guaranteed by the ISO C standard to be distinct from a successful value, this volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defines the symbol MAP_FAILED, which a conforming implementation does not return as the result of
       a successful call.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, fcntl(), fork(), lockf(), msync(), munmap(), mprotect(), posix_typed_mem_open(), shmat(), sysconf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_mman.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                MMAP(3P)
