MODF(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      MODF(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       modf, modff, modfl — decompose a floating-point number

SYNOPSIS
       #include <math.h>

       double modf(double x, double *iptr);
       float modff(float value, float *iptr);
       long double modfl(long double value, long double *iptr);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall break the argument x into integral and fractional parts, each of which has the same sign
       as the argument. It stores the integral part as a double (for the modf() function), a float (for  the  modff()
       function), or a long double (for the modfl() function), in the object pointed to by iptr.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, these functions shall return the signed fractional part of x.

       If x is NaN, a NaN shall be returned, and *iptr shall be set to a NaN.

       If x is ±Inf, ±0 shall be returned, and *iptr shall be set to ±Inf.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The modf() function computes the function result and *iptr such that:

           a = modf(x, iptr) ;
           x == a+*iptr ;

       allowing for the usual floating-point inaccuracies.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       frexp(), isnan(), ldexp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <math.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                MODF(3P)
