MPROTECT(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  MPROTECT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mprotect — set protection of memory mapping

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/mman.h>

       int mprotect(void *addr, size_t len, int prot);

DESCRIPTION
       The mprotect() function shall change the access protections to be that specified by prot for those whole pages
       containing any part of the address space of the process starting at address addr and continuing for len bytes.
       The  parameter  prot determines whether read, write, execute, or some combination of accesses are permitted to
       the data being mapped. The prot argument should be either PROT_NONE or the bitwise-inclusive OR of one or more
       of PROT_READ, PROT_WRITE, and PROT_EXEC.

       If an implementation cannot support the combination of access types specified by prot, the call to  mprotect()
       shall fail.

       An  implementation  may  permit  accesses other than those specified by prot; however, no implementation shall
       permit a write to succeed where PROT_WRITE has not been set or shall permit any access where  PROT_NONE  alone
       has  been  set.  Implementations  shall  support  at least the following values of prot: PROT_NONE, PROT_READ,
       PROT_WRITE, and the bitwise-inclusive OR of PROT_READ and PROT_WRITE. If PROT_WRITE is specified, the applica‐
       tion shall ensure that it has opened the mapped objects in the specified address range with write  permission,
       unless  MAP_PRIVATE  was specified in the original mapping, regardless of whether the file descriptors used to
       map the objects have since been closed.

       The implementation may require that addr be a multiple of the page size as returned by sysconf().

       The behavior of this function is unspecified if the mapping was not established by a call to mmap().

       When mprotect() fails for reasons other than [EINVAL], the protections on some  of  the  pages  in  the  range
       [addr,addr+len) may have been changed.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, mprotect() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno to indicate
       the error.

ERRORS
       The mprotect() function shall fail if:

       EACCES The prot argument specifies a protection that violates the access permission the process has to the un‐
              derlying memory object.

       EAGAIN The prot argument specifies PROT_WRITE over a MAP_PRIVATE mapping and there are insufficient memory re‐
              sources to reserve for locking the private page.

       ENOMEM Addresses  in  the range [addr,addr+len) are invalid for the address space of a process, or specify one
              or more pages which are not mapped.

       ENOMEM The prot argument specifies PROT_WRITE on a MAP_PRIVATE mapping, and it would require more  space  than
              the system is able to supply for locking the private pages, if required.

       ENOTSUP
              The implementation does not support the combination of accesses requested in the prot argument.

       The mprotect() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The addr argument is not a multiple of the page size as returned by sysconf().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Most implementations require that addr is a multiple of the page size as returned by sysconf().

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mmap(), sysconf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_mman.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            MPROTECT(3P)
