MSYNC(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     MSYNC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       msync — synchronize memory with physical storage

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/mman.h>

       int msync(void *addr, size_t len, int flags);

DESCRIPTION
       The  msync()  function  shall  write  all modified data to permanent storage locations, if any, in those whole
       pages containing any part of the address space of the process starting at address addr and continuing for  len
       bytes.  If  no such storage exists, msync() need not have any effect. If requested, the msync() function shall
       then invalidate cached copies of data.

       The implementation may require that addr be a multiple of the page size as returned by sysconf().

       For mappings to files, the msync() function shall ensure that all write operations are  completed  as  defined
       for  synchronized  I/O data integrity completion. It is unspecified whether the implementation also writes out
       other file attributes. When the msync() function is called on MAP_PRIVATE mappings, any  modified  data  shall
       not  be  written to the underlying object and shall not cause such data to be made visible to other processes.
       It is unspecified whether data in MAP_PRIVATE mappings has any permanent storage  locations.   The  effect  of
       msync()  on  a shared memory object or a typed memory object is unspecified.  The behavior of this function is
       unspecified if the mapping was not established by a call to mmap().

       The flags argument is constructed from the bitwise-inclusive OR of one or more of the following flags  defined
       in the <sys/mman.h> header:
                                   ┌───────────────────┬──────────────────────────────┐
                                   │ Symbolic Constant │         Description          │
                                   ├───────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
                                   │ MS_ASYNC          │ Perform asynchronous writes. │
                                   │ MS_SYNC           │ Perform synchronous writes.  │
                                   │ MS_INVALIDATE     │ Invalidate cached data.      │
                                   └───────────────────┴──────────────────────────────┘

       When  MS_ASYNC  is  specified, msync() shall return immediately once all the write operations are initiated or
       queued for servicing; when MS_SYNC is specified, msync() shall not return until all write operations are  com‐
       pleted  as  defined for synchronized I/O data integrity completion. Either MS_ASYNC or MS_SYNC shall be speci‐
       fied, but not both.

       When MS_INVALIDATE is specified, msync() shall invalidate all cached copies of mapped data that are  inconsis‐
       tent  with  the permanent storage locations such that subsequent references shall obtain data that was consis‐
       tent with the permanent storage locations sometime between the call to msync() and the first subsequent memory
       reference to the data.

       If msync() causes any write to a file, the file's last data modification and last  file  status  change  time‐
       stamps shall be marked for update.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  msync() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno to indicate
       the error.

ERRORS
       The msync() function shall fail if:

       EBUSY  Some or all of the addresses in the range starting at addr and continuing for len bytes are locked, and
              MS_INVALIDATE is specified.

       EINVAL The value of flags is invalid.

       ENOMEM The addresses in the range starting at addr and continuing for len bytes are outside the range  allowed
              for the address space of a process or specify one or more pages that are not mapped.

       The msync() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of addr is not a multiple of the page size as returned by sysconf().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The msync() function is only supported if the Synchronized Input and Output option is supported, and thus need
       not be available on all implementations.

       The msync() function should be used by programs that require a memory object to be in a known state; for exam‐
       ple, in building transaction facilities.

       Normal system activity can cause pages to be written to disk.  Therefore, there are no guarantees that msync()
       is the only control over when pages are or are not written to disk.

RATIONALE
       The  msync()  function  writes out data in a mapped region to the permanent storage for the underlying object.
       The call to msync() ensures data integrity of the file.

       After the data is written out, any cached data may be invalidated if the  MS_INVALIDATE  flag  was  specified.
       This is useful on systems that do not support read/write consistency.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mmap(), sysconf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_mman.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               MSYNC(3P)
