MUNMAP(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    MUNMAP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       munmap — unmap pages of memory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/mman.h>

       int munmap(void *addr, size_t len);

DESCRIPTION
       The  munmap()  function  shall  remove  any mappings for those entire pages containing any part of the address
       space of the process starting at addr and continuing for len bytes. Further references to  these  pages  shall
       result  in  the  generation of a SIGSEGV signal to the process.  If there are no mappings in the specified ad‐
       dress range, then munmap() has no effect.

       The implementation may require that addr be a multiple of the page size as returned by sysconf().

       If a mapping to be removed was private, any modifications made in this address range shall be discarded.

       Any memory locks (see mlock() and mlockall()) associated with this address range shall be removed, as if by an
       appropriate call to munlock().

       If a mapping removed from a typed memory object causes the corresponding address range of the memory  pool  to
       be  inaccessible  by any process in the system except through allocatable mappings (that is, mappings of typed
       memory objects opened with the POSIX_TYPED_MEM_MAP_ALLOCATABLE flag), then that range of the memory pool shall
       become deallocated and may become available to satisfy future typed memory allocation requests.

       A mapping removed from a typed memory object opened with the POSIX_TYPED_MEM_MAP_ALLOCATABLE  flag  shall  not
       affect in any way the availability of that typed memory for allocation.

       The behavior of this function is unspecified if the mapping was not established by a call to mmap().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion, munmap() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno to indicate
       the error.

ERRORS
       The munmap() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL Addresses in the range [addr,addr+len) are outside the valid range for the address space of a process.

       EINVAL The len argument is 0.

       The munmap() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The addr argument is not a multiple of the page size as returned by sysconf().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The munmap() function corresponds to SVR4, just as the mmap() function does.

       It is possible that an application has applied process memory locking to a region that contains shared memory.
       If this has occurred, the munmap() call ignores those locks and, if necessary, causes those locks  to  be  re‐
       moved.

       Most implementations require that addr is a multiple of the page size as returned by sysconf().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mlock(), mlockall(), mmap(), posix_typed_mem_open(), sysconf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_mman.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              MUNMAP(3P)
