NANOSLEEP(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 NANOSLEEP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       nanosleep — high resolution sleep

SYNOPSIS
       #include <time.h>

       int nanosleep(const struct timespec *rqtp, struct timespec *rmtp);

DESCRIPTION
       The  nanosleep()  function shall cause the current thread to be suspended from execution until either the time
       interval specified by the rqtp argument has elapsed or a signal is delivered to the calling  thread,  and  its
       action  is to invoke a signal-catching function or to terminate the process. The suspension time may be longer
       than requested because the argument value is rounded up to an integer multiple of the sleep resolution or  be‐
       cause  of  the  scheduling of other activity by the system. But, except for the case of being interrupted by a
       signal, the suspension time shall not be less than the time specified by rqtp, as measured by the system clock
       CLOCK_REALTIME.

       The use of the nanosleep() function has no effect on the action or blockage of any signal.

RETURN VALUE
       If the nanosleep() function returns because the requested time has elapsed, its return value shall be zero.

       If the nanosleep() function returns because it has been interrupted by a signal, it shall return a value of −1
       and set errno to indicate the interruption. If the rmtp argument is non-NULL, the  timespec  structure  refer‐
       enced  by  it is updated to contain the amount of time remaining in the interval (the requested time minus the
       time actually slept). The rqtp and rmtp arguments may point to the same object. If the rmtp argument is  NULL,
       the remaining time is not returned.

       If nanosleep() fails, it shall return a value of −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The nanosleep() function shall fail if:

       EINTR  The nanosleep() function was interrupted by a signal.

       EINVAL The rqtp argument specified a nanosecond value less than zero or greater than or equal to 1000 million.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       It  is common to suspend execution of a thread for an interval in order to poll the status of a non-interrupt‐
       ing function. A large number of actual needs can be met with a simple extension to sleep() that provides finer
       resolution.

       In the POSIX.1‐1990 standard and SVR4, it is possible to implement such a routine, but the frequency of wakeup
       is limited by the resolution of the alarm() and sleep() functions. In 4.3 BSD, it is possible to write such  a
       routine  using  no static storage and reserving no system facilities. Although it is possible to write a func‐
       tion with similar functionality to sleep() using the remainder of the timer_*() functions, such a function re‐
       quires the use of signals and the reservation of some signal number. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 requires that
       nanosleep() be non-intrusive of the signals function.

       The nanosleep() function shall return a value of 0 on success and −1 on failure or if interrupted. This latter
       case is different from sleep().  This was done because the remaining time is returned via an  argument  struc‐
       ture pointer, rmtp, instead of as the return value.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       clock_nanosleep(), sleep()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           NANOSLEEP(3P)
