NEWGRP(1P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    NEWGRP(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       newgrp — change to a new group

SYNOPSIS
       newgrp [−l] [group]

DESCRIPTION
       The  newgrp utility shall create a new shell execution environment with a new real and effective group identi‐
       fication. Of the attributes listed in Section 2.12, Shell Execution Environment, the new shell execution envi‐
       ronment shall retain the working directory, file creation mask, and exported variables from the previous envi‐
       ronment (that is, open files, traps, unexported variables, alias definitions, shell functions, and set options
       may be lost). All other aspects of the process environment that are preserved by the exec family of  functions
       defined  in  the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008 shall also be preserved by newgrp; whether other as‐
       pects are preserved is unspecified.

       A failure to assign the new group identifications (for example,  for  security  or  password-related  reasons)
       shall not prevent the new shell execution environment from being created.

       The newgrp utility shall affect the supplemental groups for the process as follows:

        *  On  systems  where the effective group ID is normally in the supplementary group list (or whenever the old
           effective group ID actually is in the supplementary group list):

           --  If the new effective group ID is also in the supplementary group list, newgrp shall change the  effec‐
               tive group ID.

           --  If  the new effective group ID is not in the supplementary group list, newgrp shall add the new effec‐
               tive group ID to the list, if there is room to add it.

        *  On systems where the effective group ID is not normally in the supplementary group list (or  whenever  the
           old effective group ID is not in the supplementary group list):

           --  If the new effective group ID is in the supplementary group list, newgrp shall delete it.

           --  If the old effective group ID is not in the supplementary list, newgrp shall add it if there is room.

       Note:     The  System  Interfaces  volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not specify whether the effective group ID of a
                 process is included in its supplementary group list.

       With no operands, newgrp shall change the effective group back to the groups identified in the user's user en‐
       try, and shall set the list of supplementary groups to that set in the user's group database entries.

       If the first argument is '−', the results are unspecified.

       If a password is required for the specified group, and the user is not listed as a member of that group in the
       group database, the user shall be prompted to enter the correct password for that group. If the user is listed
       as a member of that group, no password shall be requested.  If no  password  is  required  for  the  specified
       group,  it  is  implementation-defined  whether  users  not listed as members of that group can change to that
       group. Whether or not a password is required, implementation-defined system accounting or security  mechanisms
       may  impose additional authorization restrictions that may cause newgrp to write a diagnostic message and sup‐
       press the changing of the group identification.

OPTIONS
       The newgrp utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines, except for the unspecified usage of '−'.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −l        (The  letter  ell.)  Change the environment to what would be expected if the user actually logged in
                 again.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       group     A group name from the group database or a non-negative numeric group ID. Specifies the group  ID  to
                 which  the  real and effective group IDs shall be set. If group is a non-negative numeric string and
                 exists in the group database as a group name (see getgrnam()), the numeric group ID associated  with
                 that group name shall be used as the group ID.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       The file /dev/tty shall be used to read a single line of text for password checking, when one is required.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of newgrp:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The  standard  error  shall  be used for diagnostic messages and a prompt string for a password, if one is re‐
       quired. Diagnostic messages may be written in cases where the exit status is not available. See the EXIT  STA‐
       TUS section.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       If  newgrp succeeds in creating a new shell execution environment, whether or not the group identification was
       changed successfully, the exit status shall be the exit status of the shell.  Otherwise,  the  following  exit
       value shall be returned:

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       The invoking shell may terminate.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       There  is no convenient way to enter a password into the group database. Use of group passwords is not encour‐
       aged, because by their very nature they encourage poor security practices. Group passwords  may  disappear  in
       the future.

       A  common implementation of newgrp is that the current shell uses exec to overlay itself with newgrp, which in
       turn overlays itself with a new shell after changing group.  On some implementations, however,  this  may  not
       occur and newgrp may be invoked as a subprocess.

       The newgrp command is intended only for use from an interactive terminal. It does not offer a useful interface
       for the support of applications.

       The  exit status of newgrp is generally inapplicable. If newgrp is used in a script, in most cases it success‐
       fully invokes a new shell and the rest of the original shell script is bypassed when the new shell exits. Used
       interactively, newgrp displays diagnostic messages to indicate problems. But usage such as:

           newgrp foo
           echo $?

       is not useful because the new shell might not have access to any status newgrp may have  generated  (and  most
       historical  systems  do not provide this status). A zero status echoed here does not necessarily indicate that
       the user has changed to the new group successfully. Following newgrp with the id command provides  a  portable
       means of determining whether the group change was successful or not.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       Most historical implementations use one of the exec functions to implement the behavior of newgrp.  Errors de‐
       tected before the exec leave the environment unchanged, while errors detected after the exec leave the user in
       a  changed  environment.  While  it would be useful to have newgrp issue a diagnostic message to tell the user
       that the environment changed, it would be inappropriate to require this change to some historical  implementa‐
       tions.

       The password mechanism is allowed in the group database, but how this would be implemented is not specified.

       The newgrp utility was retained in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, even given the existence of the multiple group
       permissions  feature  in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, for several reasons. First, in some im‐
       plementations, the group ownership of a newly created file is determined by the  group  of  the  directory  in
       which  the  file  is created, as allowed by the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008; on other implementa‐
       tions, the group ownership of a newly created file is determined by the effective group ID. On implementations
       of the latter type, newgrp allows files to be created with a specific group ownership. Finally, many implemen‐
       tations use the real group ID in accounting, and on such systems, newgrp allows the accounting identity of the
       user to be changed.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 2, Shell Command Language, sh

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, exec, getgrnam()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              NEWGRP(1P)
