NICE(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      NICE(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       nice — invoke a utility with an altered nice value

SYNOPSIS
       nice [−n increment] utility [argument...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  nice  utility shall invoke a utility, requesting that it be run with a different nice value (see the Base
       Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.240, Nice Value).  With no options, the executed  utility  shall
       be  run with a nice value that is some implementation-defined quantity greater than or equal to the nice value
       of the current process. If the user lacks appropriate privileges to affect the nice  value  in  the  requested
       manner,  the  nice  utility shall not affect the nice value; in this case, a warning message may be written to
       standard error, but this shall not prevent the invocation of utility or affect the exit status.

OPTIONS
       The nice utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option is supported:

       −n increment
                 A  positive  or  negative  decimal  integer which shall have the same effect on the execution of the
                 utility as if the utility had called the nice() function with the numeric value of the increment op‐
                 tion-argument.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       utility   The name of a utility that is to be invoked. If the utility operand names any of the special  built-
                 in utilities in Section 2.14, Special Built-In Utilities, the results are undefined.

       argument  Any string to be supplied as an argument when invoking the utility named by the utility operand.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of nice:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       PATH      Determine the search path used to locate the utility to be invoked.  See the Base Definitions volume
                 of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       If  utility is invoked, the exit status of nice shall be the exit status of utility; otherwise, the nice util‐
       ity shall exit with one of the following values:

       1‐125   An error occurred in the nice utility.

         126   The utility specified by utility was found but could not be invoked.

         127   The utility specified by utility could not be found.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The only guaranteed portable uses of this utility are:

       nice utility
             Run utility with the default higher or equal nice value.

       nice −n <positive integer> utility
             Run utility with a higher nice value.

       On some implementations they have no discernible effect on the invoked utility and on some others they are ex‐
       actly equivalent.

       Historical systems have frequently supported the <positive integer> up to 20. Since there is no error  penalty
       associated  with  guessing  a number that is too high, users without access to the system conformance document
       (to see what limits are actually in place) could use the historical 1 to 20 range or attempt to use very large
       numbers if the job should be truly low priority.

       The nice value of a process can be displayed using the command:

           ps −o nice

       The command, env, nice, nohup, time, and xargs utilities have been specified to use exit code 127 if an  error
       occurs  so  that applications can distinguish ``failure to find a utility'' from ``invoked utility exited with
       an error indication''. The value 127 was chosen because it is not commonly used for other meanings; most util‐
       ities use small values for ``normal error conditions'' and the values above 128 can be confused with  termina‐
       tion  due  to  receipt  of a signal. The value 126 was chosen in a similar manner to indicate that the utility
       could be found, but not invoked. Some scripts produce meaningful error messages differentiating  the  126  and
       127  cases.  The  distinction between exit codes 126 and 127 is based on KornShell practice that uses 127 when
       all attempts to exec the utility fail with [ENOENT], and uses 126 when any attempt to exec the  utility  fails
       for any other reason.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  4.3  BSD version of nice does not check whether increment is a valid decimal integer. The command nice −x
       utility, for example, would be treated the same as the command nice −−1 utility.  If the user  does  not  have
       appropriate privileges, this results in a ``permission denied'' error.  This is considered a bug.

       When  a  user  without  appropriate privileges gives a negative increment, System V treats it like the command
       nice −0 utility, while 4.3 BSD writes a ``permission denied'' message and does not run the utility. The  stan‐
       dard specifies the System V behavior together with an optional BSD-style ``permission denied'' message.

       The  C shell has a built-in version of nice that has a different interface from the one described in this vol‐
       ume of POSIX.1‐2008.

       The term ``utility'' is used, rather than ``command'', to highlight the fact  that  shell  compound  commands,
       pipelines,  and  so  on, cannot be used. Special built-ins also cannot be used.  However, ``utility'' includes
       user application programs and shell scripts, not just utilities defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

       Historical implementations of nice provide a nice value range of 40 or 41 discrete  steps,  with  the  default
       nice  value being the midpoint of that range. By default, they raise the nice value of the executed utility by
       10.

       Some historical documentation states that the increment value must be within a fixed range. This  is  mislead‐
       ing;  the  valid increment values on any invocation are determined by the current process nice value, which is
       not always the default.

       The definition of nice value is not intended to suggest that all processes in a system  have  priorities  that
       are  comparable.  Scheduling policy extensions such as the realtime priorities in the System Interfaces volume
       of POSIX.1‐2008 make the notion of a single underlying priority for all scheduling policies problematic.  Some
       implementations  may  implement the nice-related features to affect all processes on the system, others to af‐
       fect just the general time-sharing activities implied by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, and others may  have  no
       effect  at all. Because of the use of ``implementation-defined'' in nice and renice, a wide range of implemen‐
       tation strategies are possible.

       Earlier versions of this  standard  allowed  a  −increment  option.  This  form  is  no  longer  specified  by
       POSIX.1‐2008 but may be present in some implementations.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 2, Shell Command Language, renice

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.240, Nice Value, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Sec‐
       tion 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, nice()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                NICE(1P)
