NL(1P)                                        POSIX Programmer's Manual                                        NL(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       nl — line numbering filter

SYNOPSIS
       nl [−p] [−b type] [−d delim] [−f type] [−h type] [−i incr] [−l num]
           [−n format] [−s sep] [−v startnum] [−w width] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       The nl utility shall read lines from the named file or the standard input if no file is named and shall repro‐
       duce  the  lines to standard output. Lines shall be numbered on the left. Additional functionality may be pro‐
       vided in accordance with the command options in effect.

       The nl utility views the text it reads in terms of logical pages. Line numbering shall be reset at  the  start
       of  each  logical  page. A logical page consists of a header, a body, and a footer section. Empty sections are
       valid. Different line numbering options are independently available for header, body, and footer (for example,
       no numbering of header and footer lines while numbering blank lines only in the body).

       The starts of logical page sections shall be signaled by input lines containing nothing but the following  de‐
       limiter characters:
                                                ┌────────────┬────────────┐
                                                │    Line    │  Start of  │
                                                ├────────────┼────────────┤
                                                │ \:\:\:     │ Header     │
                                                │ \:\:       │ Body       │
                                                │ \:         │ Footer     │
                                                └────────────┴────────────┘

       Unless otherwise specified, nl shall assume the text being read is in a single logical page body.

OPTIONS
       The  nl  utility  shall  conform  to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.  Only one file can be named.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −b type   Specify which logical page body lines shall be numbered. Recognized types and their meaning are:

                 a       Number all lines.

                 t       Number only non-empty lines.

                 n       No line numbering.

                 pstring Number only lines that contain the basic regular expression specified in string.

                 The default type for logical page body shall be t (text lines numbered).

       −d delim  Specify the delimiter characters that indicate the start of a logical page  section.  These  can  be
                 changed  from the default characters "\:" to two user-specified characters. If only one character is
                 entered, the second character shall remain the default character ':'.

       −f type   Specify the same as b type except for footer. The default for logical page footer  shall  be  n  (no
                 lines numbered).

       −h type   Specify  the  same  as b type except for header. The default type for logical page header shall be n
                 (no lines numbered).

       −i incr   Specify the increment value used to number logical page lines. The default shall be 1.

       −l num    Specify the number of blank lines to be considered as one. For example, −l 2  results  in  only  the
                 second  adjacent  blank  line being numbered (if the appropriate −h a, −b a, or −f a option is set).
                 The default shall be 1.

       −n format Specify the line numbering format. Recognized values are: ln, left  justified,  leading  zeros  sup‐
                 pressed; rn, right justified, leading zeros suppressed; rz, right justified, leading zeros kept. The
                 default format shall be rn (right justified).

       −p        Specify that numbering should not be restarted at logical page delimiters.

       −s sep    Specify  the  characters used in separating the line number and the corresponding text line. The de‐
                 fault sep shall be a <tab>.

       −v startnum
                 Specify the initial value used to number logical page lines. The default shall be 1.

       −w width  Specify the number of characters to be used for the line number. The default width shall be 6.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of a text file to be line-numbered.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used if no file operand is specified, and shall be used if the file operand is '−'
       and the implementation treats the '−' as meaning standard input.  Otherwise, the standard input shall  not  be
       used.  See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input file shall be a text file.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of nl:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_COLLATE
                 Determine  the locale for the behavior of ranges, equivalence classes, and multi-character collating
                 elements within regular expressions.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files), the behavior
                 of  character classes within regular expressions, and for deciding which characters are in character
                 class graph (for the −b t, −f t, and −h t options).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall be a text file in the following format:

           "%s%s%s", <line number>, <separator>, <input line>

       where <line number> is one of the following numeric formats:

       %6d       When the rn format is used (the default; see −n).

       %06d      When the rz format is used.

       %−6d      When the ln format is used.

       <empty>   When line numbers are suppressed for a portion of the page; the <separator> is also suppressed.

       In the preceding list, the number 6 is the default width; the −w option can change this value.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       In  using the −d delim option, care should be taken to escape characters that have special meaning to the com‐
       mand interpreter.

EXAMPLES
       The command:

           nl −v 10 −i 10 −d \!+ file1

       numbers file1 starting at line number 10 with an increment of 10. The logical page delimiter  is  "!+".   Note
       that  the  '!'   has to be escaped when using csh as a command interpreter because of its history substitution
       syntax.  For ksh and sh the escape is not necessary, but does not do any harm.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       pr

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                  NL(1P)
