NM-INITRD-GENERATOR(8)                          System Administration                          NM-INITRD-GENERATOR(8)

NAME
       nm-initrd-generator - early boot NetworkManager configuration generator

SYNOPSIS

       nm-initrd-generator [OPTIONS...] -- [CMDLINE...]

DESCRIPTION
       nm-initrd-generator scans the command line for options relevant to network configuration and creates
       configuration files for an early instance of NetworkManager run from the initial ramdisk during early boot.

OPTIONS
       -c | --connections-dir path
           Output connection directory.

       -p | --persistent-connections-dir path
           Persistent connection directory. If it exists, rd.neednet will not cause a default connection to be
           generated in absence of other options.

       -i | --initrd-data-dir path
           Output directory for initrd data (e.g. hostname).

       -d | --sysfs-dir path
           The sysfs mount point.

       -r | --run-config-dir path
           Output directory for config files.

       -s | --stdout
           Dump connections to standard output. Useful for debugging.

       CMDLINE
           The options that appear on the kernel command line. The following options are recognized:
               ip
               rd.route
               bridge
               bond
               team
               vlan
               ib.pkey
               bootdev
               nameserver
               net.ifnames
               rd.peerdns
               rd.iscsi.ibft
               rd.bootif
               rd.neednet
               rd.ethtool
               rd.net.timeout.dhcp
               rd.net.dhcp.retry
               rd.net.dhcp.vendor-class
               rd.net.timeout.carrier
               rd.znet
               rd.znet_ifname
               BOOTIF
           Please consult the dracut.cmdline(7) manual for the documentation of the precise format of the values
           supported.

DIFFERENCES FROM THE NETWORK-LEGACY DRACUT MODULE
       nm-initrd-generator generates a set of connections that are then configured by the NetworkManager instance
       running in the initrd. There are some differences in behavior compared to the network-legacy dracut module:

       •   When an interface is configured with a static address and a gateway, the network-legacy module waits that
           the gateway responds to arping requests before proceeding, while NetworkManager doesn't.

       •   network-legacy configures interfaces one by one in the order in which they are announced by udev. If
           multiple interfaces specify a hostname (from command line or from DHCP), the one from the last interface
           activated wins. With NetworkManager, hostnames from command line have higher precedence over ones from
           DHCP, and the last that appears in the command line wins.

       •   NetworkManager supports the ib.pkey=PARENT.PKEY argument to set up an Infiniband partition on IPoIB parent
           device PARENT using the specified partition key PKEY. The partition key must be in hexadecimal notation
           without leading "0x", for example "ib.pkey=ib0.8004".

       •   NetworkManager supports the rd.ethtool=INTERFACE:AUTONEG:SPEED kernel command line option to set up
           ethtool NIC configuration parameters AUTONEG and SPEED. The INTERFACE being configured must be specified,
           and the other parameters are optional and can be left blank. When SPEED is set, duplex mode is
           automatically set to 'full'.  INTERFACE accepts string values, AUTONEG accepts boolean values (true and
           false / on or off / 0 or 1), and SPEED accepts positive integer values.

EXIT STATUS
       nm-initrd-generator exits with status 0. It ignores unrecognized options and prints an error message if it
       encounters a malformed option.

SEE ALSO
       dracut.cmdline(7), NetworkManager(8).

NetworkManager 1.40.16                                                                         NM-INITRD-GENERATOR(8)
