PAUSE(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     PAUSE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       pause — suspend the thread until a signal is received

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int pause(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The pause() function shall suspend the calling thread until delivery of a signal whose action is either to ex‐
       ecute a signal-catching function or to terminate the process.

       If the action is to terminate the process, pause() shall not return.

       If  the  action is to execute a signal-catching function, pause() shall return after the signal-catching func‐
       tion returns.

RETURN VALUE
       Since pause() suspends thread execution indefinitely unless interrupted by a signal, there  is  no  successful
       completion return value. A value of −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The pause() function shall fail if:

       EINTR  A signal is caught by the calling process and control is returned from the signal-catching function.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Many  common uses of pause() have timing windows. The scenario involves checking a condition related to a sig‐
       nal and, if the signal has not occurred, calling pause().  When the signal occurs between the  check  and  the
       call  to  pause(),  the process often blocks indefinitely. The sigprocmask() and sigsuspend() functions can be
       used to avoid this type of problem.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       sigsuspend()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               PAUSE(3P)
