PCLOSE(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    PCLOSE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       pclose — close a pipe stream to or from a process

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int pclose(FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  pclose() function shall close a stream that was opened by popen(), wait for the command to terminate, and
       return the termination status of the process that was running the command language interpreter.  However, if a
       call caused the termination status to be unavailable to pclose(), then pclose() shall return −1 with errno set
       to [ECHILD] to report this situation. This can happen if the application calls one of the following functions:

        *  wait()

        *  waitpid() with a pid argument less than or equal to 0 or equal to the process ID of the command  line  in‐
           terpreter

        *  Any other function not defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 that could do one of the above

       In any case, pclose() shall not return before the child process created by popen() has terminated.

       If  the  command  language  interpreter  cannot be executed, the child termination status returned by pclose()
       shall be as if the command language interpreter terminated using exit(127) or _exit(127).

       The pclose() function shall not affect the termination status of any child of the calling process  other  than
       the one created by popen() for the associated stream.

       If  the argument stream to pclose() is not a pointer to a stream created by popen(), the result of pclose() is
       undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful return, pclose() shall return the termination status of the command language interpreter. Oth‐
       erwise, pclose() shall return −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The pclose() function shall fail if:

       ECHILD The status of the child process could not be obtained, as described above.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       There is a requirement that pclose() not return before the child process terminates. This is intended to  dis‐
       allow  implementations  that return [EINTR] if a signal is received while waiting. If pclose() returned before
       the child terminated, there would be no way for the application to discover which child used to be  associated
       with the stream, and it could not do the cleanup itself.

       If  the  stream pointed to by stream was not created by popen(), historical implementations of pclose() return
       −1 without setting errno.  To avoid requiring pclose() to set errno in this case, POSIX.1‐2008 makes  the  be‐
       havior  unspecified.  An  application  should  not  use  pclose()  to close any stream that was not created by
       popen().

       Some historical implementations of pclose() either block or ignore the signals  SIGINT,  SIGQUIT,  and  SIGHUP
       while  waiting for the child process to terminate. Since this behavior is not described for the pclose() func‐
       tion in POSIX.1‐2008, such implementations are not conforming. Also, some  historical  implementations  return
       [EINTR]  if  a  signal is received, even though the child process has not terminated. Such implementations are
       also considered non-conforming.

       Consider, for example, an application that uses:

           popen("command", "r")

       to start command, which is part of the same application. The parent writes a prompt  to  its  standard  output
       (presumably  the  terminal)  and  then  reads from the popen()ed stream. The child reads the response from the
       user, does some transformation on the response (pathname expansion, perhaps) and  writes  the  result  to  its
       standard output. The parent process reads the result from the pipe, does something with it, and prints another
       prompt. The cycle repeats. Assuming that both processes do appropriate buffer flushing, this would be expected
       to work.

       To conform to POSIX.1‐2008, pclose() must use waitpid(), or some similar function, instead of wait().

       The  code  sample  below  illustrates how the pclose() function might be implemented on a system conforming to
       POSIX.1‐2008.

           int pclose(FILE *stream)
           {
               int stat;
               pid_t pid;

               pid = <pid for process created for stream by popen()>
               (void) fclose(stream);
               while (waitpid(pid, &stat, 0) == -1) {
                   if (errno != EINTR){
                       stat = -1;
                       break;
                   }
               }
               return(stat);
           }

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fork(), popen(), wait()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              PCLOSE(3P)
