poll.h(0P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    poll.h(0P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       poll.h — definitions for the poll() function

SYNOPSIS
       #include <poll.h>

DESCRIPTION
       The <poll.h> header shall define the pollfd structure, which shall include at least the following members:

           int    fd       The following descriptor being polled.
           short  events   The input event flags (see below).
           short  revents  The output event flags (see below).

       The <poll.h> header shall define the following type through typedef:

       nfds_t        An unsigned integer type used for the number of file descriptors.

       The  implementation  shall  support  one  or  more programming environments in which the width of nfds_t is no
       greater than the width of type long.  The names of these programming environments can be  obtained  using  the
       confstr() function or the getconf utility.

       The <poll.h> header shall define the following symbolic constants, zero or more of which may be OR'ed together
       to form the events or revents members in the pollfd structure:

       POLLIN        Data other than high-priority data may be read without blocking.

       POLLRDNORM    Normal data may be read without blocking.

       POLLRDBAND    Priority data may be read without blocking.

       POLLPRI       High priority data may be read without blocking.

       POLLOUT       Normal data may be written without blocking.

       POLLWRNORM    Equivalent to POLLOUT.

       POLLWRBAND    Priority data may be written.

       POLLERR       An error has occurred (revents only).

       POLLHUP       Device has been disconnected (revents only).

       POLLNVAL      Invalid fd member (revents only).

       The significance and semantics of normal, priority, and high-priority data are file and device-specific.

       The  following  shall be declared as a function and may also be defined as a macro. A function prototype shall
       be provided.

           int   poll(struct pollfd [], nfds_t, int);

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, confstr(), poll()

       The Shell and Utilities volume of POSIX.1‐2008, getconf

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              poll.h(0P)
