POSIX_FALLOCATE(3P)                           POSIX Programmer's Manual                           POSIX_FALLOCATE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       posix_fallocate — file space control (ADVANCED REALTIME)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fcntl.h>

       int posix_fallocate(int fd, off_t offset, off_t len);

DESCRIPTION
       The posix_fallocate() function shall ensure that any required storage for regular file data starting at offset
       and  continuing for len bytes is allocated on the file system storage media. If posix_fallocate() returns suc‐
       cessfully, subsequent writes to the specified file data shall not fail due to the lack of free  space  on  the
       file system storage media.

       If  the  offset+len is beyond the current file size, then posix_fallocate() shall adjust the file size to off‐
       set+len.  Otherwise, the file size shall not be changed.

       It is implementation-defined whether a previous posix_fadvise() call influences allocation strategy.

       Space allocated via posix_fallocate() shall be freed by a successful call to creat() or open() that  truncates
       the  size  of the file. Space allocated via posix_fallocate() may be freed by a successful call to ftruncate()
       that reduces the file size to a size smaller than offset+len.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, posix_fallocate() shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall be  returned
       to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The posix_fallocate() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fd argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EBADF  The fd argument references a file that was opened without write permission.

       EFBIG  The value of offset+len is greater than the maximum file size.

       EINTR  A signal was caught during execution.

       EINVAL The  len  argument  is less than zero, or the offset argument is less than zero, or the underlying file
              system does not support this operation.

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to a file system.

       ENODEV The fd argument does not refer to a regular file.

       ENOSPC There is insufficient free space remaining on the file system storage media.

       ESPIPE The fd argument is associated with a pipe or FIFO.

       The posix_fallocate() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The len argument is zero.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The posix_fallocate() function is part of the Advisory Information option and need not be provided on all  im‐
       plementations.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       creat(), ftruncate(), open(), unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <fcntl.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                     POSIX_FALLOCATE(3P)
