PSIGINFO(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  PSIGINFO(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       psiginfo, psignal — print signal information to standard error

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       void psiginfo(const siginfo_t *pinfo, const char *message);
       void psignal(int signum, const char *message);

DESCRIPTION
       The psiginfo() and psignal() functions shall print a message out on stderr associated with a signal number. If
       message  is  not null and is not the empty string, then the string pointed to by the message argument shall be
       printed first, followed by a <colon>, a <space>, and the signal description string indicated by signum, or  by
       the signal associated with pinfo.  If the message argument is null or points to an empty string, then only the
       signal  description  shall  be printed. For psiginfo(), the argument pinfo references a valid siginfo_t struc‐
       ture. For psignal(), if signum is not a valid signal number, the behavior is implementation-defined.

       The psiginfo() and psignal() functions shall not change the orientation of the standard error stream.

       The psiginfo() and psignal() functions shall mark for update the last data modification and last  file  status
       change  timestamps of the file associated with the standard error stream at some time between their successful
       completion and exit(), abort(), or the completion of fflush() or fclose() on stderr.

       The psiginfo() and psignal() functions shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       On error, the psiginfo() and psignal() functions shall set the error indicator for the stream to which  stderr
       points, and shall set errno to indicate the error.

       Since  no  value is returned, an application wishing to check for error situations should set errno to 0, then
       call psiginfo() or psignal(), then check errno.

RETURN VALUE
       These functions shall not return a value.

ERRORS
       Refer to fputc().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       As an alternative to setting errno to zero before the call and checking if it is non-zero afterwards, applica‐
       tions can use ferror() to detect whether psiginfo() or psignal() encountered an error.

       An application wishing to use this method to check for error situations should  call  clearerr(stderr)  before
       calling  psiginfo()  or psignal(), then if ferror(stderr) returns non-zero, the value of errno indicates which
       error occurred.

RATIONALE
       System V historically has psignal() and psiginfo() in <siginfo.h>.  However, the  <siginfo.h>  header  is  not
       specified in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, and the type siginfo_t is defined in <signal.h>.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fputc(), perror(), strsignal()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            PSIGINFO(3P)
