PTHREAD_CANCEL(3P)                            POSIX Programmer's Manual                            PTHREAD_CANCEL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       pthread_cancel — cancel execution of a thread

SYNOPSIS
       #include <pthread.h>

       int pthread_cancel(pthread_t thread);

DESCRIPTION
       The  pthread_cancel()  function shall request that thread be canceled. The target thread's cancelability state
       and type determines when the cancellation takes effect. When the cancellation is acted  on,  the  cancellation
       cleanup  handlers  for thread shall be called. When the last cancellation cleanup handler returns, the thread-
       specific data destructor functions shall be called for thread.  When the  last  destructor  function  returns,
       thread shall be terminated.

       The  cancellation  processing in the target thread shall run asynchronously with respect to the calling thread
       returning from pthread_cancel().

RETURN VALUE
       If successful, the pthread_cancel() function shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall  be  returned
       to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The pthread_cancel() function shall not return an error code of [EINTR].

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Two  alternative functions were considered for sending the cancellation notification to a thread. One would be
       to define a new SIGCANCEL signal that had the cancellation semantics when delivered; the other was  to  define
       the new pthread_cancel() function, which would trigger the cancellation semantics.

       The  advantage of a new signal was that so much of the delivery criteria were identical to that used when try‐
       ing to deliver a signal that making cancellation notification a signal was seen as  consistent.  Indeed,  many
       implementations  implement  cancellation  using  a special signal. On the other hand, there would be no signal
       functions that could be used with this signal except pthread_kill(), and the behavior of the delivered cancel‐
       lation signal would be unlike any previously existing defined signal.

       The benefits of a special function include the recognition that this signal would be defined  because  of  the
       similar  delivery criteria and that this is the only common behavior between a cancellation request and a sig‐
       nal. In addition, the cancellation delivery mechanism does not have to be implemented as a signal.  There  are
       also  strong,  if not stronger, parallels with language exception mechanisms than with signals that are poten‐
       tially obscured if the delivery mechanism is visibly closer to signals.

       In the end, it was considered that as there were so many exceptions to the use of the new signal with existing
       signals functions it would be misleading. A special function has resolved this  problem.   This  function  was
       carefully  defined  so  that an implementation wishing to provide the cancellation functions on top of signals
       could do so.  The special function also means that implementations are not obliged to  implement  cancellation
       with signals.

       If  an  implementation  detects  use  of a thread ID after the end of its lifetime, it is recommended that the
       function should fail and report an [ESRCH] error.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       pthread_exit(), pthread_cond_timedwait(), pthread_join(), pthread_setcancelstate()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <pthread.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                      PTHREAD_CANCEL(3P)
