PTHREAD_ATFORK(3P)                            POSIX Programmer's Manual                            PTHREAD_ATFORK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       pthread_atfork — register fork handlers

SYNOPSIS
       #include <pthread.h>

       int pthread_atfork(void (*prepare)(void), void (*parent)(void),
           void (*child)(void));

DESCRIPTION
       The pthread_atfork() function shall declare fork handlers to be called before and after fork(), in the context
       of  the  thread  that  called  fork().  The prepare fork handler shall be called before fork() processing com‐
       mences. The parent fork handle shall be called after fork() processing completes in the  parent  process.  The
       child  fork  handler shall be called after fork() processing completes in the child process. If no handling is
       desired at one or more of these three points, the corresponding fork handler address(es) may be set to NULL.

       The order of calls to pthread_atfork() is significant. The parent and child fork handlers shall be  called  in
       the  order  in  which  they were established by calls to pthread_atfork().  The prepare fork handlers shall be
       called in the opposite order.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, pthread_atfork() shall return a value of zero; otherwise, an error number shall be
       returned to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The pthread_atfork() function shall fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient table space exists to record the fork handler addresses.

       The pthread_atfork() function shall not return an error code of [EINTR].

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       There are at least two serious problems with the semantics of fork() in a multi-threaded program. One  problem
       has  to do with state (for example, memory) covered by mutexes. Consider the case where one thread has a mutex
       locked and the state covered by that mutex is inconsistent while another thread calls fork().  In  the  child,
       the  mutex  is in the locked state (locked by a nonexistent thread and thus can never be unlocked). Having the
       child simply reinitialize the mutex is unsatisfactory since this approach does not resolve the question  about
       how to correct or otherwise deal with the inconsistent state in the child.

       It is suggested that programs that use fork() call an exec function very soon afterwards in the child process,
       thus  resetting  all  states.  In  the  meantime,  only a short list of async-signal-safe library routines are
       promised to be available.

       Unfortunately, this solution does not address the needs of multi-threaded libraries. Application programs  may
       not  be  aware  that a multi-threaded library is in use, and they feel free to call any number of library rou‐
       tines between the fork() and exec calls, just as they always have. Indeed, they may be extant  single-threaded
       programs and cannot, therefore, be expected to obey new restrictions imposed by the threads library.

       On  the other hand, the multi-threaded library needs a way to protect its internal state during fork() in case
       it is re-entered later in the child process. The problem arises especially in  multi-threaded  I/O  libraries,
       which  are almost sure to be invoked between the fork() and exec calls to effect I/O redirection. The solution
       may require locking mutex variables during fork(), or it may entail simply resetting the state  in  the  child
       after the fork() processing completes.

       The  pthread_atfork()  function was intended to provide multi-threaded libraries with a means to protect them‐
       selves from innocent application programs that call fork(), and to provide multi-threaded application programs
       with a standard mechanism for protecting themselves from fork() calls in a library routine or the  application
       itself.

       The  expected usage was that the prepare handler would acquire all mutex locks and the other two fork handlers
       would release them.

       For example, an application could have supplied a prepare routine that acquires the necessary mutexes the  li‐
       brary  maintains  and  supplied  child  and parent routines that release those mutexes, thus ensuring that the
       child would have got a consistent snapshot of the state of the library (and that no mutexes  would  have  been
       left  stranded).  This  is  good in theory, but in reality not practical. Each and every mutex and lock in the
       process must be located and locked. Every component of a program including third-party components must partic‐
       ipate and they must agree who is responsible for which mutex or lock. This is especially problematic  for  mu‐
       texes  and locks in dynamically allocated memory. All mutexes and locks internal to the implementation must be
       locked, too. This possibly delays the thread calling fork() for a long time or even indefinitely since uses of
       these synchronization objects may not be under control of the application. A final problem to mention here  is
       the  problem of locking streams. At least the streams under control of the system (like stdin, stdout, stderr)
       must be protected by locking the stream with flockfile().  But the application itself could  have  done  that,
       possibly in the same thread calling fork().  In this case, the process will deadlock.

       Alternatively,  some  libraries might have been able to supply just a child routine that reinitializes the mu‐
       texes in the library and all associated states to some known value (for example, what it was  when  the  image
       was  originally  executed). This approach is not possible, though, because implementations are allowed to fail
       *_init() and *_destroy() calls for mutexes and locks if the mutex or lock is still locked. In this  case,  the
       child routine is not able to reinitialize the mutexes and locks.

       When  fork() is called, only the calling thread is duplicated in the child process.  Synchronization variables
       remain in the same state in the child as they were in the parent at the time fork() was called. Thus, for  ex‐
       ample, mutex locks may be held by threads that no longer exist in the child process, and any associated states
       may  be  inconsistent. The intention was that the parent process could have avoided this by explicit code that
       acquires and releases locks critical to the child via pthread_atfork().  In  addition,  any  critical  threads
       would  have  needed  to  be recreated and reinitialized to the proper state in the child (also via pthread_at‐
       fork()).

       A higher-level package may acquire locks on its own data structures before invoking lower-level packages.  Un‐
       der  this  scenario,  the  order  specified  for fork handler calls allows a simple rule of initialization for
       avoiding package deadlock: a package initializes all  packages  on  which  it  depends  before  it  calls  the
       pthread_atfork() function for itself.

       As  explained, there is no suitable solution for functionality which requires non-atomic operations to be pro‐
       tected through mutexes and locks. This is why the POSIX.1 standard since the 1996 release  requires  that  the
       child process after fork() in a multi-threaded process only calls async-signal-safe interfaces.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       atexit(), exec, fork()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <pthread.h>, <sys_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                      PTHREAD_ATFORK(3P)
