PTHREAD_SETSCHEDPRIO(3P)                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                      PTHREAD_SETSCHEDPRIO(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       pthread_setschedprio — dynamic thread scheduling parameters access (REALTIME THREADS)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <pthread.h>

       int pthread_setschedprio(pthread_t thread, int prio);

DESCRIPTION
       The  pthread_setschedprio() function shall set the scheduling priority for the thread whose thread ID is given
       by thread to the value given by prio.  See Scheduling Policies for a description on how this function call af‐
       fects the ordering of the thread in the thread list for its new priority.

       If the pthread_setschedprio() function fails, the scheduling priority  of  the  target  thread  shall  not  be
       changed.

RETURN VALUE
       If  successful, the pthread_setschedprio() function shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall be re‐
       turned to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The pthread_setschedprio() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of prio is invalid for the scheduling policy of the specified thread.

       EPERM  The caller does not have appropriate privileges to set the scheduling priority of the specified thread.

       The pthread_setschedprio() function shall not return an error code of [EINTR].

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The pthread_setschedprio() function provides a way for an application to temporarily raise  its  priority  and
       then  lower it again, without having the undesired side-effect of yielding to other threads of the same prior‐
       ity. This is necessary if the application is to implement its own strategies for bounding priority  inversion,
       such  as priority inheritance or priority ceilings. This capability is especially important if the implementa‐
       tion does not support the Thread Priority Protection or Thread Priority Inheritance options, but even if those
       options are supported it is needed if the application is to bound priority inheritance  for  other  resources,
       such as semaphores.

       The  standard  developers  considered  that while it might be preferable conceptually to solve this problem by
       modifying the specification of pthread_setschedparam(), it was too late to make such a change, as there may be
       implementations that would need to be changed. Therefore, this new function was introduced.

       If an implementation detects use of a thread ID after the end of its lifetime,  it  is  recommended  that  the
       function should fail and report an [ESRCH] error.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Scheduling Policies, pthread_getschedparam()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <pthread.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                PTHREAD_SETSCHEDPRIO(3P)
