PTHREAD_EXIT(3P)                              POSIX Programmer's Manual                              PTHREAD_EXIT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       pthread_exit — thread termination

SYNOPSIS
       #include <pthread.h>

       void pthread_exit(void *value_ptr);

DESCRIPTION
       The  pthread_exit()  function shall terminate the calling thread and make the value value_ptr available to any
       successful join with the terminating thread. Any cancellation cleanup handlers that have been pushed  and  not
       yet  popped  shall be popped in the reverse order that they were pushed and then executed. After all cancella‐
       tion cleanup handlers have been executed, if the thread has any thread-specific data,  appropriate  destructor
       functions shall be called in an unspecified order. Thread termination does not release any application visible
       process  resources,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  mutexes and file descriptors, nor does it perform any
       process-level cleanup actions, including, but not limited to, calling any atexit() routines that may exist.

       An implicit call to pthread_exit() is made when a thread other than the thread in which main() was  first  in‐
       voked  returns  from  the start routine that was used to create it. The function's return value shall serve as
       the thread's exit status.

       The behavior of pthread_exit() is undefined if called from a cancellation cleanup handler or destructor  func‐
       tion that was invoked as a result of either an implicit or explicit call to pthread_exit().

       After  a  thread  has  terminated,  the result of access to local (auto) variables of the thread is undefined.
       Thus, references to local variables of the exiting thread should not be used for the pthread_exit()  value_ptr
       parameter value.

       The  process shall exit with an exit status of 0 after the last thread has been terminated. The behavior shall
       be as if the implementation called exit() with a zero argument at thread termination time.

RETURN VALUE
       The pthread_exit() function cannot return to its caller.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The normal mechanism by which a thread terminates is to return from the routine  that  was  specified  in  the
       pthread_create()  call  that  started  it. The pthread_exit() function provides the capability for a thread to
       terminate without requiring a return from the start routine of that thread, thereby providing a function anal‐
       ogous to exit().

       Regardless of the method of thread termination, any cancellation cleanup handlers that have  been  pushed  and
       not yet popped are executed, and the destructors for any existing thread-specific data are executed. This vol‐
       ume  of POSIX.1‐2008 requires that cancellation cleanup handlers be popped and called in order. After all can‐
       cellation cleanup handlers have been executed, thread-specific data destructors are called, in an  unspecified
       order,  for  each  item  of thread-specific data that exists in the thread. This ordering is necessary because
       cancellation cleanup handlers may rely on thread-specific data.

       As the meaning of the status is determined by the application (except when the thread has  been  canceled,  in
       which  case  it is PTHREAD_CANCELED), the implementation has no idea what an illegal status value is, which is
       why no address error checking is done.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exit(), pthread_create(), pthread_join()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <pthread.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                        PTHREAD_EXIT(3P)
