PTSNAME(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   PTSNAME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ptsname — get name of the slave pseudo-terminal device

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       char *ptsname(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The  ptsname()  function  shall  return  the name of the slave pseudo-terminal device associated with a master
       pseudo-terminal device. The fildes argument is a file descriptor that refers to the  master  device.  The  pt‐
       sname() function shall return a pointer to a string containing the pathname of the corresponding slave device.

       The ptsname() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, ptsname() shall return a pointer to a string which is the name of the pseudo-ter‐
       minal slave device. Upon failure, ptsname() shall return a null pointer. This could occur if fildes is an  in‐
       valid file descriptor or if the slave device name does not exist in the file system.

       The  application shall not modify the string returned. The returned pointer might be invalidated or the string
       content might be overwritten by a subsequent call to ptsname().

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       See the RATIONALE section for posix_openpt().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       grantpt(), open(), posix_openpt(), ttyname(), unlockpt()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             PTSNAME(3P)
