PUTENV(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    PUTENV(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       putenv — change or add a value to an environment

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int putenv(char *string);

DESCRIPTION
       The  putenv()  function  shall use the string argument to set environment variable values. The string argument
       should point to a string of the form "name=value".  The putenv() function shall make the value of the environ‐
       ment variable name equal to value by altering an existing variable or creating a new one. In either case,  the
       string  pointed to by string shall become part of the environment, so altering the string shall change the en‐
       vironment.

       The putenv() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, putenv() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return a non-zero value and set errno
       to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The putenv() function may fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Changing the Value of an Environment Variable
       The following example changes the value of the HOME environment variable to the value /usr/home.

           #include <stdlib.h>
           ...
           static char *var = "HOME=/usr/home";
           int ret;

           ret = putenv(var);

APPLICATION USAGE
       The putenv() function manipulates the environment pointed to by environ, and can be used in  conjunction  with
       getenv().

       See exec() for restrictions on changing the environment in multi-threaded applications.

       This routine may use malloc() to enlarge the environment.

       A potential error is to call putenv() with an automatic variable as the argument, then return from the calling
       function while string is still part of the environment.

       Although  the  space  used  by  string  is  no  longer  used once a new string which defines name is passed to
       putenv(), if any thread in the application has used getenv() to retrieve a pointer to this variable, it should
       not be freed by calling free().  If the changed environment variable is one known by the system (such  as  the
       locale  environment  variables) the application should never free the buffer used by earlier calls to putenv()
       for the same variable.

       The setenv() function is preferred over this function. One reason is that putenv() is optional  and  therefore
       less  portable.  Another is that using putenv() can slow down environment searches, as explained in the RATIO‐
       NALE section for getenv().

RATIONALE
       Refer to the RATIONALE section in setenv().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, free(), getenv(), malloc(), setenv()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              PUTENV(3P)
