PUTMSG(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    PUTMSG(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       putmsg, putpmsg — send a message on a STREAM (STREAMS)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stropts.h>

       int putmsg(int fildes, const struct strbuf *ctlptr,
           const struct strbuf *dataptr, int flags);
       int putpmsg(int fildes, const struct strbuf *ctlptr,
           const struct strbuf *dataptr, int band, int flags);

DESCRIPTION
       The  putmsg() function shall create a message from a process buffer(s) and send the message to a STREAMS file.
       The message may contain either a data part, a control part, or both. The data and control  parts  are  distin‐
       guished  by  placement  in separate buffers, as described below. The semantics of each part are defined by the
       STREAMS module that receives the message.

       The putpmsg() function is equivalent to putmsg(), except that the process can send messages in different  pri‐
       ority bands.  Except where noted, all requirements on putmsg() also pertain to putpmsg().

       The  fildes  argument specifies a file descriptor referencing an open STREAM. The ctlptr and dataptr arguments
       each point to a strbuf structure.

       The ctlptr argument points to the structure describing the control part, if any, to be included  in  the  mes‐
       sage.  The  buf member in the strbuf structure points to the buffer where the control information resides, and
       the len member indicates the number of bytes to be sent. The maxlen member is not used by putmsg().  In a sim‐
       ilar manner, the argument dataptr specifies the data, if any, to be included in the message. The  flags  argu‐
       ment indicates what type of message should be sent and is described further below.

       To  send  the  data part of a message, the application shall ensure that dataptr is not a null pointer and the
       len member of dataptr is 0 or greater. To send the control part of a message,  the  application  shall  ensure
       that  the  corresponding  values  are  set  for  ctlptr.   No data (control) part shall be sent if either dat‐
       aptr(ctlptr) is a null pointer or the len member of dataptr(ctlptr) is set to −1.

       For putmsg(), if a control part is specified and flags is set to RS_HIPRI, a high priority  message  shall  be
       sent.  If  no  control  part  is specified, and flags is set to RS_HIPRI, putmsg() shall fail and set errno to
       [EINVAL].  If flags is set to 0, a normal message (priority band equal to 0) shall be sent.  If a control part
       and data part are not specified and flags is set to 0, no message shall be sent and 0 shall be returned.

       For putpmsg(), the flags are different. The flags argument is a bitmask with the following  mutually-exclusive
       flags  defined:  MSG_HIPRI and MSG_BAND. If flags is set to 0, putpmsg() shall fail and set errno to [EINVAL].
       If a control part is specified and flags is set to MSG_HIPRI and band is set to  0,  a  high-priority  message
       shall  be  sent. If flags is set to MSG_HIPRI and either no control part is specified or band is set to a non-
       zero value, putpmsg() shall fail and set errno to [EINVAL].  If flags is set to MSG_BAND, then a message shall
       be sent in the priority band specified by band.  If a control part and data part are not specified  and  flags
       is set to MSG_BAND, no message shall be sent and 0 shall be returned.

       The  putmsg()  function shall block if the STREAM write queue is full due to internal flow control conditions,
       with the following exceptions:

        *  For high-priority messages, putmsg() shall not block on this condition and continues processing  the  mes‐
           sage.

        *  For other messages, putmsg() shall not block but shall fail when the write queue is full and O_NONBLOCK is
           set.

       The  putmsg() function shall also block, unless prevented by lack of internal resources, while waiting for the
       availability of message blocks in the STREAM, regardless of priority or whether O_NONBLOCK has been specified.
       No partial message shall be sent.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, putmsg() and putpmsg() shall return 0; otherwise, they shall return −1 and set er‐
       rno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The putmsg() and putpmsg() functions shall fail if:

       EAGAIN A non-priority message was specified, the O_NONBLOCK flag is set, and the STREAM write  queue  is  full
              due  to internal flow control conditions; or buffers could not be allocated for the message that was to
              be created.

       EBADF  fildes is not a valid file descriptor open for writing.

       EINTR  A signal was caught during putmsg().

       EINVAL An undefined value is specified in flags, or flags is set to RS_HIPRI or MSG_HIPRI and no control  part
              is supplied, or the STREAM or multiplexer referenced by fildes is linked (directly or indirectly) down‐
              stream from a multiplexer, or flags is set to MSG_HIPRI and band is non-zero (for putpmsg() only).

       ENOSR  Buffers  could not be allocated for the message that was to be created due to insufficient STREAMS mem‐
              ory resources.

       ENOSTR A STREAM is not associated with fildes.

       ENXIO  A hangup condition was generated downstream for the specified STREAM.

       EPIPE or EIO
              The fildes argument refers to a STREAMS-based pipe and the other end of the pipe is closed.  A  SIGPIPE
              signal is generated for the calling thread.

       ERANGE The  size  of  the data part of the message does not fall within the range specified by the maximum and
              minimum packet sizes of the topmost STREAM module. This value is also returned if the control  part  of
              the message is larger than the maximum configured size of the control part of a message, or if the data
              part of a message is larger than the maximum configured size of the data part of a message.

       In  addition,  putmsg() and putpmsg() shall fail if the STREAM head had processed an asynchronous error before
       the call. In this case, the value of errno does not reflect the result of putmsg() or putpmsg(), but  reflects
       the prior error.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Sending a High-Priority Message
       The value of fd is assumed to refer to an open STREAMS file. This call to putmsg() does the following:

        1. Creates a high-priority message with a control part and a data part, using the buffers pointed to by ctrl‐
           buf and databuf, respectively.

        2. Sends the message to the STREAMS file identified by fd.

           #include <stropts.h>
           #include <string.h>
           ...
           int fd;
           char *ctrlbuf = "This is the control part";
           char *databuf = "This is the data part";
           struct strbuf ctrl;
           struct strbuf data;
           int ret;

           ctrl.buf = ctrlbuf;
           ctrl.len = strlen(ctrlbuf);

           data.buf = databuf;
           data.len = strlen(databuf);

           ret = putmsg(fd, &ctrl, &data, MSG_HIPRI);

   Using putpmsg()
       This  example  has  the  same effect as the previous example. In this example, however, the putpmsg() function
       creates and sends the message to the STREAMS file.

           #include <stropts.h>
           #include <string.h>
           ...
           int fd;
           char *ctrlbuf = "This is the control part";
           char *databuf = "This is the data part";
           struct strbuf ctrl;
           struct strbuf data;
           int ret;

           ctrl.buf = ctrlbuf;
           ctrl.len = strlen(ctrlbuf);

           data.buf = databuf;
           data.len = strlen(databuf);

           ret = putpmsg(fd, &ctrl, &data, 0, MSG_HIPRI);

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The putmsg() and putpmsg() functions may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.6, STREAMS, getmsg(), poll(), read(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stropts.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              PUTMSG(3P)
