PWD(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       PWD(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       pwd — return working directory name

SYNOPSIS
       pwd [−L|−P]

DESCRIPTION
       The  pwd  utility  shall write to standard output an absolute pathname of the current working directory, which
       does not contain the filenames dot or dot-dot.

OPTIONS
       The pwd utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008,  Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported by the implementation:

       −L        If the PWD environment variable contains an absolute pathname of the current directory that does not
                 contain  the  filenames dot or dot-dot, pwd shall write this pathname to standard output. Otherwise,
                 if the PWD environment variable contains a pathname of the current directory  that  is  longer  than
                 {PATH_MAX}  bytes  including  the terminating null, and the pathname does not contain any components
                 that are dot or dot-dot, it is unspecified whether pwd writes this pathname to  standard  output  or
                 behaves  as if the −P option had been specified. Otherwise, the −L option shall behave as the −P op‐
                 tion.

       −P        The pathname written to standard output shall not contain any components that refer to files of type
                 symbolic link. If there are multiple pathnames that the pwd utility could write to standard  output,
                 one beginning with a single <slash> character and one or more beginning with two <slash> characters,
                 then  it  shall write the pathname beginning with a single <slash> character. The pathname shall not
                 contain any unnecessary <slash> characters after the leading one or two <slash> characters.

       If both −L and −P are specified, the last one shall apply. If neither −L nor −P is specified, the pwd  utility
       shall behave as if −L had been specified.

OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of pwd:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables the precedence of
                 internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       PWD       An absolute pathname of the current working directory. If an application sets or unsets the value of
                 PWD, the behavior of pwd is unspecified.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The pwd utility output is an absolute pathname of the current working directory:

           "%s\n", <directory pathname>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       If an error is detected, output shall not be written to standard output, a diagnostic message shall be written
       to standard error, and the exit status is not zero.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If the pathname obtained from pwd is longer than {PATH_MAX} bytes, it could produce an error if passed to  cd.
       Therefore,  in  order  to  return  to  that  directory it may be necessary to break the pathname into sections
       shorter than {PATH_MAX} and call cd on each section in turn (the first section being an absolute pathname  and
       subsequent sections being relative pathnames).

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       Some implementations have historically provided pwd as a shell special built-in command.

       In  most utilities, if an error occurs, partial output may be written to standard output. This does not happen
       in historical implementations of pwd.  Because pwd is frequently used  in  historical  shell  scripts  without
       checking the exit status, it is important that the historical behavior is required here; therefore, the CONSE‐
       QUENCES OF ERRORS section specifically disallows any partial output being written to standard output.

       An  earlier  version of this standard stated that the PWD environment variable was affected when the −P option
       was in effect. This was incorrect; conforming implementations do not do this.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       cd

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, getcwd()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 PWD(1P)
