QDEL(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      QDEL(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qdel — delete batch jobs

SYNOPSIS
       qdel job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       A  batch  job is deleted by sending a request to the batch server that manages the batch job. A batch job that
       has been deleted is no longer subject to management by batch services.

       The qdel utility is a user-accessible client of batch services that requests the deletion of one or more batch
       jobs.

       The qdel utility shall request a batch server to delete those batch jobs for which a batch  job_identifier  is
       presented to the utility.

       The  qdel  utility  shall delete batch jobs in the order in which their batch job_identifiers are presented to
       the utility.

       If the qdel utility fails to process any batch job_identifier  successfully,  the  utility  shall  proceed  to
       process the remaining batch job_identifiers, if any.

       The  qdel utility shall delete each batch job by sending a Delete Job Request to the batch server that manages
       the batch job.

       The qdel utility shall not exit until the  batch  job  corresponding  to  each  successfully  processed  batch
       job_identifier has been deleted.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The  qdel utility shall accept one or more operands that conform to the syntax for a batch job_identifier (see
       Section 3.3.1, Batch Job Identifier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qdel:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  the  precedence  of
                 internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       An implementation of the qdel utility may write informative messages to standard output.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In addition to the default behavior, the qdel utility shall not be required to write a diagnostic  message  to
       standard  error when the error reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identifier does
       not exist on the server. Whether or not the qdel utility waits to output the diagnostic message while attempt‐
       ing to locate the job on other servers is implementation-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The qdel utility allows users and administrators to delete jobs.

       The qdel utility provides functionality that is not otherwise available. For example, the kill utility of  the
       operating  system  does not suffice. First, to use the kill utility, the user might have to log in on a remote
       node, because the kill utility does not operate across the network. Second, unlike qdel,  kill  cannot  remove
       jobs  from  queues.  Lastly, the arguments of the qdel utility are job identifiers rather than process identi‐
       fiers, and so this utility can be passed the output of the qselect utility, thus providing users with a  means
       of deleting a list of jobs.

       Because  a  set  of  jobs can be selected using the qselect utility, the qdel utility has not been complicated
       with options that provide for selection of jobs. Instead, the batch jobs to be deleted are identified individ‐
       ually by their job identifiers.

       Historically, the qdel utility has been a component of NQS, the existing practice on which it is  based.  How‐
       ever, the qdel utility defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not provide an option for specifying a sig‐
       nal  number to send to the batch job prior to the killing of the process; that capability has been subsumed by
       the qsig utility.

       A discussion was held about the delays of networking and the possibility that the batch server may  never  re‐
       spond,  due  to  a down router, down batch server, or other network mishap. The DESCRIPTION records this under
       the words ``fails to process any job identifier''.  In the broad sense, the network problem is also an  error,
       which causes the failure to process the batch job identifier.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qdel utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, kill, qselect, qsig

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                QDEL(1P)
