QHOLD(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     QHOLD(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qhold — hold batch jobs

SYNOPSIS
       qhold [−h hold_list] job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       A  hold is placed on a batch job by a request to the batch server that manages the batch job. A batch job that
       has one or more holds is not eligible for execution. The qhold utility is a user-accessible  client  of  batch
       services that requests one or more types of hold to be placed on one or more batch jobs.

       The  qhold  utility shall place holds on those batch jobs for which a batch job_identifier is presented to the
       utility.

       The qhold utility shall place holds on batch jobs in the order in which their batch job_identifiers  are  pre‐
       sented  to the utility. If the qhold utility fails to process any batch job_identifier successfully, the util‐
       ity shall proceed to process the remaining batch job_identifiers, if any.

       The qhold utility shall place holds on each batch job by sending a Hold Job Request to the batch  server  that
       manages the batch job.

       The  qhold utility shall not exit until holds have been placed on the batch job corresponding to each success‐
       fully processed batch job_identifier.

OPTIONS
       The qhold utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported by the implementation:

       −h hold_list
                 Define the types of holds to be placed on the batch job.

                 The  qhold  −h option shall accept a value for the hold_list option-argument that is a string of al‐
                 phanumeric  characters  in  the  portable  character  set  (see  the  Base  Definitions  volume   of
                 POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set).

                 The  qhold utility shall accept a value for the hold_list option-argument that is a string of one or
                 more of the characters 'u', 's', or 'o', or the single character 'n'.

                 For each unique character in the hold_list option-argument, the qhold utility shall add a  value  to
                 the Hold_Types attribute of the batch job as follows, each representing a different hold type:

                 u     USER

                 s     SYSTEM

                 o     OPERATOR

                 If  any of these characters are duplicated in the hold_list option-argument, the duplicates shall be
                 ignored.

                 An existing Hold_Types attribute can be cleared by the following hold type:

                 n     NO_HOLD

                 The qhold utility shall consider it an error if any hold type other than 'n' is combined  with  hold
                 type 'n'.

                 Strictly conforming applications shall not repeat any of the characters 'u', 's', 'o', or 'n' within
                 the  hold_list  option-argument.  The  qhold  utility shall permit the repetition of characters, but
                 shall not assign additional meaning to the repeated characters.

                 An implementation may define other hold types. The conformance document for an implementation  shall
                 describe  any  additional  hold types, how they are specified, their internal behavior, and how they
                 affect the behavior of the utility.

                 If the −h option is not presented to the qhold utility, the implementation shall set the  Hold_Types
                 attribute to USER.

OPERANDS
       The qhold utility shall accept one or more operands that conform to the syntax for a batch job_identifier (see
       Section 3.3.1, Batch Job Identifier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qhold:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables the precedence of
                 internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       None.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In  addition to the default behavior, the qhold utility shall not be required to write a diagnostic message to
       standard error when the error reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identifier  does
       not  exist  on  the  server. Whether or not the qhold utility waits to output the diagnostic message while at‐
       tempting to locate the job on other servers is implementation-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The qhold utility allows users to place a hold on one or more jobs. A hold makes a batch  job  ineligible  for
       execution.

       The  qhold utility has options that allow the user to specify the type of hold.  Should the user wish to place
       a hold on a set of jobs that meet a selection criteria, such a list of jobs can be acquired using the  qselect
       utility.

       The  −h option allows the user to specify the type of hold that is to be placed on the job. This option allows
       for USER, SYSTEM, OPERATOR, and implementation-defined hold types. The USER and OPERATOR holds  are  distinct.
       The  batch server that manages the batch job will verify that the user is authorized to set the specified hold
       for the batch job.

       Mail is not required on hold because the administrator has the tools and libraries to build this option if  he
       or she wishes.

       Historically, the qhold utility has been a part of some existing batch systems, although it has not tradition‐
       ally been a part of the NQS.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qhold utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, qselect

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set, Chapter 8, Environment Vari‐
       ables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               QHOLD(1P)
