QMOVE(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     QMOVE(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qmove — move batch jobs

SYNOPSIS
       qmove destination job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       To  move  a  batch job is to remove the batch job from the batch queue in which it resides and instantiate the
       batch job in another batch queue.  A batch job is moved by a request to the  batch  server  that  manages  the
       batch job. The qmove utility is a user-accessible batch client that requests the movement of one or more batch
       jobs.

       The  qmove utility shall move those batch jobs, and only those batch jobs, for which a batch job_identifier is
       presented to the utility.

       The qmove utility shall move batch jobs in the order in which the corresponding batch job_identifiers are pre‐
       sented to the utility.

       If the qmove utility fails to process a batch  job_identifier  successfully,  the  utility  shall  proceed  to
       process the remaining batch job_identifiers, if any.

       The  qmove  utility  shall move batch jobs by sending a Move Job Request to the batch server that manages each
       batch job. The qmove utility shall not exit before the batch jobs corresponding to all successfully  processed
       batch job_identifiers have been moved.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The  qmove  utility shall accept one operand that conforms to the syntax for a destination (see Section 3.3.2,
       Destination).

       The qmove utility shall accept one or more operands that conform to the syntax for a batch job_identifier (see
       Section 3.3.1, Batch Job Identifier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qmove:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  the  precedence  of
                 internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       None.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In addition to the default behavior, the qmove utility shall not be required to write a diagnostic message  to
       standard  error when the error reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identifier does
       not exist on the server. Whether or not the qmove utility waits to output the  diagnostic  message  while  at‐
       tempting to locate the job on other servers is implementation-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The qmove utility allows users to move jobs between queues.

       The  alternative  to using the qmove utility—deleting the batch job and requeuing it—entails considerably more
       typing.

       Since the means of selecting jobs based on attributes has been encapsulated in the qselect utility,  the  only
       option  of  the  qmove utility concerns authorization. The −u option provides the user with the convenience of
       changing the user identifier under which the batch job will execute. Minimalism  and  consistency  have  taken
       precedence  over convenience; the −u option has been deleted because the equivalent capability exists with the
       −u option of the qalter utility.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qmove utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, qalter, qselect

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               QMOVE(1P)
