QMSG(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      QMSG(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qmsg — send message to batch jobs

SYNOPSIS
       qmsg [−EO] message_string job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       To  send  a  message to a batch job is to request that a server write a message string into one or more output
       files of the batch job. A message is sent to a batch job by a request to the batch  server  that  manages  the
       batch  job. The qmsg utility is a user-accessible batch client that requests the sending of messages to one or
       more batch jobs.

       The qmsg utility shall write messages into the files of batch jobs by sending a Job  Message  Request  to  the
       batch  server that manages the batch job. The qmsg utility shall not directly write the message into the files
       of the batch job.

       The qmsg utility shall send a Job Message Request for those batch jobs, and only those batch jobs, for which a
       batch job_identifier is presented to the utility.

       The qmsg utility shall send Job Message Requests for batch jobs in the order in which their batch  job_identi‐
       fiers are presented to the utility.

       If  the  qmsg  utility  fails  to  process any batch job_identifier successfully, the utility shall proceed to
       process the remaining batch job_identifiers, if any.

       The qmsg utility shall not exit before a Job Message Request has been sent to  the  server  that  manages  the
       batch job that corresponds to each successfully processed batch job_identifier.

OPTIONS
       The  qmsg  utility  shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported by the implementation:

       −E        Specify that the message is written to the standard error of each batch job.

                 The qmsg utility shall write the message into the standard error of the batch job.

       −O        Specify that the message is written to the standard output of each batch job.

                 The qmsg utility shall write the message into the standard output of the batch job.

       If neither the −O nor the −E option is presented to the qmsg utility, the utility shall write the message into
       an implementation-defined file. The conformance document for the implementation shall describe  the  name  and
       location of the implementation-defined file. If both the −O and the −E options are presented to the qmsg util‐
       ity, then the utility shall write the messages to both standard output and standard error.

OPERANDS
       The qmsg utility shall accept a minimum of two operands, message_string and one or more batch job_identifiers.

       The message_string operand shall be the string to be written to one or more output files of the batch job fol‐
       lowed  by  a <newline>.  If the string contains <blank> characters, then the application shall ensure that the
       string is quoted. The message_string shall be encoded in the portable character set (see the Base  Definitions
       volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set).

       All  remaining  operands  are batch job_identifiers that conform to the syntax for a batch job_identifier (see
       Section 3.3.1, Batch Job Identifier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qmsg:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  the  precedence  of
                 internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       None.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In addition to the default behavior, the qmsg utility shall not be required to write a diagnostic  message  to
       standard  error when the error reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identifier does
       not exist on the server. Whether or not the qmsg utility waits to output the diagnostic message while attempt‐
       ing to locate the job on other servers is implementation-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The qmsg utility allows users to write messages into the output files of running jobs. Users, including opera‐
       tors and administrators, have a number of occasions when they want to place messages in the output files of  a
       batch job. For example, if a disk that is being used by a batch job is showing errors, the operator might note
       this in the standard error stream of the batch job.

       The  options  of  the qmsg utility provide users with the means of placing the message in the output stream of
       their choice. The default output stream for the message—if the user does not designate an output stream—is im‐
       plementation-defined, since many implementations will provide, as an extension to this volume of POSIX.1‐2008,
       a log file that shows the history of utility execution.

       If users wish to send a message to a set of jobs that meet a selection criteria, the qselect  utility  can  be
       used to acquire the appropriate list of job identifiers.

       The −E option allows users to place the message in the standard error stream of the batch job.

       The −O option allows users to place the message in the standard output stream of the batch job.

       Historically, the qmsg utility is an existing practice in the offerings of one or more implementors of an NQS-
       derived  batch  system. The utility has been found to be useful enough that it deserves to be included in this
       volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qmsg utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, qselect

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set, Chapter 8, Environment Vari‐
       ables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                QMSG(1P)
