QRERUN(1P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    QRERUN(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qrerun — rerun batch jobs

SYNOPSIS
       qrerun job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       To  rerun  a  batch  job is to terminate the session leader of the batch job, delete any associated checkpoint
       files, and return the batch job to the batch queued state. A batch job is rerun by  a  request  to  the  batch
       server  that manages the batch job. The qrerun utility is a user-accessible batch client that requests the re‐
       running of one or more batch jobs.

       The qrerun utility shall rerun those batch jobs for which a batch job_identifier is presented to the utility.

       The qrerun utility shall rerun batch jobs in the order in which their batch job_identifiers are  presented  to
       the utility.

       If  the  qrerun  utility  fails to process any batch job_identifier successfully, the utility shall proceed to
       process the remaining batch job_identifiers, if any.

       The qrerun utility shall rerun batch jobs by sending a Rerun Job Request to the batch server that manages each
       batch job.

       For each successfully processed batch job_identifier, the qrerun utility shall have  rerun  the  corresponding
       batch job at the time the utility exits.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The  qrerun  utility  shall  accept one or more operands that conform to the syntax for a batch job_identifier
       (see Section 3.3.1, Batch Job Identifier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qrerun:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  the  precedence  of
                 internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       None.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In addition to the default behavior, the qrerun utility shall not be required to write a diagnostic message to
       standard error when the error reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identifier  does
       not  exist  on  the server. Whether or not the qrerun utility waits to output the diagnostic message while at‐
       tempting to locate the job on other servers is implementation-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The qrerun utility allows users to cause jobs in the running state to exit and rerun.

       The qrerun utility is a new utility, vis-a-vis existing practice, that has been  defined  in  this  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 to correct user-perceived deficiencies in the existing practice.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qrerun utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              QRERUN(1P)
