QRLS(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      QRLS(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qrls — release batch jobs

SYNOPSIS
       qrls [−h hold_list] job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       A  batch  job might have one or more holds, which prevent the batch job from executing. A batch job from which
       all the holds have been removed becomes eligible for execution and is said to have been released. A batch  job
       hold  is  removed  by  sending a request to the batch server that manages the batch job. The qrls utility is a
       user-accessible client of batch services that requests holds be removed from one or more batch jobs.

       The qrls utility shall remove one or more holds from those batch jobs for which a batch job_identifier is pre‐
       sented to the utility.

       The qrls utility shall remove holds from batch jobs in the order in which their batch job_identifiers are pre‐
       sented to the utility.

       If the qrls utility fails to process a batch job_identifier successfully, the utility shall proceed to process
       the remaining batch job_identifiers, if any.

       The qrls utility shall remove holds on each batch job by sending a Release Job Request  to  the  batch  server
       that manages the batch job.

       The  qrls  utility  shall  not exit until the holds have been removed from the batch job corresponding to each
       successfully processed batch job_identifier.

OPTIONS
       The qrls utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported by the implementation:

       −h hold_list
                 Define the types of holds to be removed from the batch job.

                 The  qrls  −h  option shall accept a value for the hold_list option-argument that is a string of al‐
                 phanumeric  characters  in  the  portable  character  set  (see  the  Base  Definitions  volume   of
                 POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set).

                 The  qrls  utility shall accept a value for the hold_list option-argument that is a string of one or
                 more of the characters 'u', 's', or 'o', or the single character 'n'.

                 For each unique character in the hold_list option-argument, the qrls utility shall add  a  value  to
                 the Hold_Types attribute of the batch job as follows, each representing a different hold type:

                 u     USER

                 s     SYSTEM

                 o     OPERATOR

                 If  any of these characters are duplicated in the hold_list option-argument, the duplicates shall be
                 ignored.

                 An existing Hold_Types attribute can be cleared by the following hold type:

                 n     NO_HOLD

                 The qrls utility shall consider it an error if any hold type other than 'n' is  combined  with  hold
                 type 'n'.

                 Strictly conforming applications shall not repeat any of the characters 'u', 's', 'o', or 'n' within
                 the hold_list option-argument. The qrls utility shall permit the repetition of characters, but shall
                 not assign additional meaning to the repeated characters.

                 An  implementation may define other hold types. The conformance document for an implementation shall
                 describe any additional hold types, how they are specified, their internal behavior,  and  how  they
                 affect the behavior of the utility.

                 If the −h option is not presented to the qrls utility, the implementation shall remove the USER hold
                 in the Hold_Types attribute.

OPERANDS
       The  qrls utility shall accept one or more operands that conform to the syntax for a batch job_identifier (see
       Section 3.3.1, Batch Job Identifier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qrls:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  the  precedence  of
                 internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       None.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In addition to the default behavior, the qrls utility shall not be required to write a diagnostic  message  to
       standard  error when the error reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identifier does
       not exist on the server. Whether or not the qrls utility waits to output the diagnostic message while attempt‐
       ing to locate the job on other servers is implementation-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The qrls utility allows users, operators, and administrators to remove holds from jobs.

       The qrls utility does not support any job selection options or wildcard arguments. Users may acquire a list of
       jobs selected by attributes using the qselect utility. For example, a user could  select  all  of  their  held
       jobs.

       The  −h option allows the user to specify the type of hold that is to be removed. This option allows for USER,
       SYSTEM, OPERATOR, and implementation-defined hold types. The batch server that manages the batch job will ver‐
       ify whether the user is authorized to remove the specified hold for the batch job. If more than  one  type  of
       hold has been placed on the batch job, a user may wish to remove only some of them.

       Mail  is not required on release because the administrator has the tools and libraries to build this option if
       required.

       The qrls utility is a new utility vis-a-vis  existing  practice;  it  has  been  defined  in  this  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 as the natural complement to the qhold utility.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qrls utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, qhold, qselect

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set, Chapter 8, Environment Vari‐
       ables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                QRLS(1P)
