QSORT(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     QSORT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qsort — sort a table of data

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void qsort(void *base, size_t nel, size_t width,
           int (*compar)(const void *, const void *));

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The qsort() function shall sort an array of nel objects, the initial element of which is pointed to  by  base.
       The size of each object, in bytes, is specified by the width argument. If the nel argument has the value zero,
       the comparison function pointed to by compar shall not be called and no rearrangement shall take place.

       The  application shall ensure that the comparison function pointed to by compar does not alter the contents of
       the array. The implementation may reorder elements of the array between calls to the comparison function,  but
       shall not alter the contents of any individual element.

       When  the  same  objects (consisting of width bytes, irrespective of their current positions in the array) are
       passed more than once to the comparison function, the results shall be consistent with one another.  That  is,
       they shall define a total ordering on the array.

       The  contents  of  the array shall be sorted in ascending order according to a comparison function. The compar
       argument is a pointer to the comparison function, which is called with two arguments that point  to  the  ele‐
       ments  being  compared. The application shall ensure that the function returns an integer less than, equal to,
       or greater than 0, if the first argument is considered respectively less than, equal to, or greater  than  the
       second. If two members compare as equal, their order in the sorted array is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       The qsort() function shall not return a value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The comparison function need not compare every byte, so arbitrary data may be contained in the elements in ad‐
       dition to the values being compared.

RATIONALE
       The requirement that each argument (hereafter referred to as p) to the comparison function is a pointer to el‐
       ements  of  the  array implies that for every call, for each argument separately, all of the following expres‐
       sions are non-zero:

           ((char *)p − (char *)base) % width == 0
           (char *)p >= (char *)base
           (char *)p < (char *)base + nel * width

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       alphasort()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               QSORT(3P)
