QSTAT(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     QSTAT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qstat — show status of batch jobs

SYNOPSIS
       qstat [−f] job_identifier...

       qstat −Q [−f] destination...

       qstat −B [−f] server_name...

DESCRIPTION
       The  status  of  a  batch  job, batch queue, or batch server is obtained by a request to the server. The qstat
       utility is a user-accessible batch client that requests the status of one or more batch jobs, batch queues, or
       servers, and writes the status information to standard output.

       For each successfully processed batch job_identifier, the qstat utility shall display  information  about  the
       corresponding batch job.

       For each successfully processed destination, the qstat utility shall display information about the correspond‐
       ing batch queue.

       For each successfully processed server name, the qstat utility shall display information about the correspond‐
       ing server.

       The  qstat  utility  shall  acquire  batch  job  status information by sending a Job Status Request to a batch
       server. The qstat utility shall acquire batch queue status information by sending a Queue Status Request to  a
       batch  server. The qstat utility shall acquire server status information by sending a Server Status Request to
       a batch server.

OPTIONS
       The qstat utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported by the implementation:

       −f        Specify that a full display is produced.

                 The minimum contents of a full display are specified in the STDOUT section.

                 Additional contents and format of a full display are implementation-defined.

       −Q        Specify that the operand is a destination.

                 The qstat utility shall display information about each batch queue at each destination identified as
                 an operand.

       −B        Specify that the operand is a server name.

                 The qstat utility shall display information about each server identified as an operand.

OPERANDS
       If the −Q option is presented to the qstat utility, the utility shall accept one or more operands that conform
       to the syntax for a destination (see Section 3.3.2, Destination).

       If the −B option is presented to the qstat utility, the utility shall accept one or more server_name operands.

       If  neither  the  −B nor the −Q option is presented to the qstat utility, the utility shall accept one or more
       operands that conform to the syntax for a batch job_identifier (see Section 3.3.1, Batch Job Identifier).

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qstat:

       HOME      Determine the pathname of the user's home directory.

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  the  precedence  of
                 internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_COLLATE
                 Determine the locale for the behavior of ranges, equivalence classes, and multi-character  collating
                 elements within regular expressions.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       LC_NUMERIC
                 Determine  the  locale  for selecting the radix character used when writing floating-point formatted
                 output.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       If an operand presented to the qstat utility is a batch job_identifier and the −f option is not specified, the
       qstat utility shall display the following items on a single line, in the stated order, with  white  space  be‐
       tween each item, for each successfully processed operand:

        *  The batch job_identifier

        *  The batch job name

        *  The Job_Owner attribute

        *  The CPU time used by the batch job

        *  The batch job state

        *  The batch job location

       If an operand presented to the qstat utility is a batch job_identifier and the −f option is specified, the qs‐
       tat utility shall display the following items for each success fully processed operand:

        *  The batch job_identifier

        *  The batch job name

        *  The Job_Owner attribute

        *  The execution user ID

        *  The CPU time used by the batch job

        *  The batch job state

        *  The batch job location

        *  Additional implementation-defined information, if any, about the batch job or batch queue

       If  an  operand presented to the qstat utility is a destination, the −Q option is specified, and the −f option
       is not specified, the qstat utility shall display the following items on a single line, in the  stated  order,
       with white space between each item, for each successfully processed operand:

        *  The batch queue name

        *  The maximum number of batch jobs that shall be run in the batch queue concurrently

        *  The total number of batch jobs in the batch queue

        *  The status of the batch queue

        *  For each state, the number of batch jobs in that state in the batch queue and the name of the state

        *  The type of batch queue (execution or routing)

       If the operands presented to the qstat utility are destinations, the −Q option is specified, and the −f option
       is specified, the qstat utility shall display the following items for each successfully processed operand:

        *  The batch queue name

        *  The maximum number of batch jobs that shall be run in the batch queue concurrently

        *  The total number of batch jobs in the batch queue

        *  The status of the batch queue

        *  For each state, the number of batch jobs in that state in the batch queue and the name of the state

        *  The type of batch queue (execution or routing)

        *  Additional implementation-defined information, if any, about the batch queue

       If  the operands presented to the qstat utility are batch server names, the −B option is specified, and the −f
       option is not specified, the qstat utility shall display the following items on a single line, in  the  stated
       order, with white space between each item, for each successfully processed operand:

        *  The batch server name

        *  The maximum number of batch jobs that shall be run in the batch queue concurrently

        *  The total number of batch jobs managed by the batch server

        *  The status of the batch server

        *  For each state, the number of batch jobs in that state and the name of the state

       If the operands presented to the qstat utility are server names, the −B option is specified, and the −f option
       is specified, the qstat utility shall display the following items for each successfully processed operand:

        *  The server name

        *  The maximum number of batch jobs that shall be run in the batch queue concurrently

        *  The total number of batch jobs managed by the server

        *  The status of the server

        *  For each state, the number of batch jobs in that state and the name of the state

        *  Additional implementation-defined information, if any, about the server

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       In  addition to the default behavior, the qstat utility shall not be required to write a diagnostic message to
       standard error when the error reply received from a batch server indicates that the batch job_identifier  does
       not  exist  on  the  server. Whether or not the qstat utility waits to output the diagnostic message while at‐
       tempting to locate the batch job on other servers is implementation-defined.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The qstat utility allows users to display the status of jobs and list the batch jobs in queues.

       The operands of the qstat utility may be either job identifiers,  queues  (specified  as  destination  identi‐
       fiers), or batch server names. The −Q and −B options, or absence thereof, indicate the nature of the operands.

       The  other  options of the qstat utility allow the user to control the amount of information displayed and the
       format in which it is displayed. Should a user wish to display the status of a set of jobs that match a selec‐
       tion criteria, the qselect utility may be used to acquire such a list.

       The −f option allows users to request a ``full'' display in an implementation-defined format.

       Historically, the qstat utility has been a part of the NQS and its derivatives, the existing practice on which
       it is based.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qstat utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, qselect

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               QSTAT(1P)
