QSUB(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      QSUB(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       qsub — submit a script

SYNOPSIS
       qsub [−a date_time] [−A account_string] [−c interval]
           [−C directive_prefix] [−e path_name] [−h] [−j join_list]
           [−k keep_list] [−m mail_options] [−M mail_list] [−N name]
           [−o path_name] [−p priority] [−q destination] [−r y|n]
           [−S path_name_list] [−u user_list] [−v variable_list] [−V]
           [−z] [script]

DESCRIPTION
       To  submit a script is to create a batch job that executes the script. A script is submitted by a request to a
       batch server. The qsub utility is a user-accessible batch client that submits a script.

       Upon successful completion, the qsub utility shall have created a batch job that will  execute  the  submitted
       script.

       The qsub utility shall submit a script by sending a Queue Job Request to a batch server.

       The  qsub  utility shall place the value of the following environment variables in the Variable_List attribute
       of the batch job: HOME, LANG, LOGNAME, PATH, MAIL, SHELL, and TZ.  The name of the environment variable  shall
       be the current name prefixed with the string PBS_O_.

       Note:     If the current value of the HOME variable in the environment space of the qsub utility is /aa/bb/cc,
                 then qsub shall place PBS_O_HOME=/aa/bb/cc in the Variable_List attribute of the batch job.

       In  addition to the variables described above, the qsub utility shall add the following variables with the in‐
       dicated values to the variable list:

       PBS_O_WORKDIR The absolute path of the current working directory of the qsub utility process.

       PBS_O_HOST    The name of the host on which the qsub utility is running.

OPTIONS
       The qsub utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported by the implementation:

       −a date_time
                 Define the time at which a batch job becomes eligible for execution.

                 The  qsub utility shall accept an option-argument that conforms to the syntax of the time operand of
                 the touch utility.

                                         Table 4-19: Environment Variable Values (Utilities)
                                            ┌───────────────┬───────────────────────────┐
                                            │ Variable Name │    Value at qsub Time     │
                                            ├───────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
                                            │ PBS_O_HOME    │ HOME                      │
                                            │ PBS_O_HOST    │ Client host name          │
                                            │ PBS_O_LANG    │ LANG                      │
                                            │ PBS_O_LOGNAME │ LOGNAME                   │
                                            │ PBS_O_PATH    │ PATH                      │
                                            │ PBS_O_MAIL    │ MAIL                      │
                                            │ PBS_O_SHELL   │ SHELL                     │
                                            │ PBS_O_TZ      │ TZ                        │
                                            │ PBS_O_WORKDIR │ Current working directory │
                                            └───────────────┴───────────────────────────┘

                 Note:     The server that initiates execution of the batch job will add other variables to the batch
                           job's environment; see Section 3.2.2.1, Batch Job Execution.

                 The qsub utility shall set the Execution_Time attribute of the batch job to the  number  of  seconds
                 since the Epoch that is equivalent to the local time expressed by the value of the date_time option-
                 argument. The Epoch is defined in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.150, Epoch.

                 If  the −a option is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the Execution_Time at‐
                 tribute of the batch job to a time (number of seconds since the Epoch) that is earlier than the time
                 at which the utility exits.

       −A account_string
                 Define the account to which the resource consumption of the batch job should be charged.

                 The syntax of the account_string option-argument is unspecified.

                 The qsub utility shall set the Account_Name attribute of the batch job  to  the  value  of  the  ac‐
                 count_string option-argument.

                 If  the  −A option is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall omit the Account_Name at‐
                 tribute from the attributes of the batch job.

       −c interval
                 Define whether the batch job should be checkpointed, and if so, how often.

                 The qsub utility shall accept a value for the interval option-argument that is one of the following:

                 n         No checkpointing shall be performed on the batch job (NO_CHECKPOINT).

                 s         Checkpointing shall be  performed  only  when  the  batch  server  is  shut  down  (CHECK‐
                           POINT_AT_SHUTDOWN).

                 c         Automatic  periodic checkpointing shall be performed at the Minimum_Cpu_Interval attribute
                           of the batch queue, in units of CPU minutes (CHECKPOINT_AT_MIN_CPU_INTERVAL).

                 c=minutes Automatic periodic checkpointing shall be performed every minutes of CPU  time,  or  every
                           Minimum_Cpu_Interval  minutes, whichever is greater. The minutes argument shall conform to
                           the syntax for unsigned integers and shall be greater than zero.

                 The qsub utility shall set the Checkpoint attribute of the batch job to the value  of  the  interval
                 option-argument.

                 If  the  −c  option  is  not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the Checkpoint at‐
                 tribute of the batch job to the single character 'u' (CHECKPOINT_UNSPECIFIED).

       −C directive_prefix
                 Define the prefix that declares a directive to the qsub utility within the script.

                 The directive_prefix is not a batch job attribute; it affects the behavior of the qsub utility.

                 If the −C option is presented to the qsub utility, and the value of the directive_prefix  option-ar‐
                 gument  is the null string, the utility shall not scan the script file for directives. If the −C op‐
                 tion is not presented to the qsub utility, then the value of the PBS_DPREFIX environment variable is
                 used. If the environment variable is not defined, then #PBS encoded in the portable character set is
                 the default.

       −e path_name
                 Define the path to be used for the standard error stream of the batch job.

                 The qsub utility shall accept a path_name option-argument which can be preceded by a host name  ele‐
                 ment of the form hostname:.

                 If  the  path_name  option-argument constitutes an absolute pathname, the qsub utility shall set the
                 Error_Path attribute of the batch job to the value of the path_name option-argument.

                 If the path_name option-argument constitutes a relative pathname and no host name element is  speci‐
                 fied,  the  qsub utility shall set the Error_Path attribute of the batch job to the value of the ab‐
                 solute pathname derived by expanding the path_name option-argument relative to the current directory
                 of the process executing qsub.

                 If the path_name option-argument constitutes a relative pathname and a host name element  is  speci‐
                 fied,  the  qsub  utility  shall  set  the Error_Path attribute of the batch job to the value of the
                 path_name option-argument without expansion. The host name element shall be included.

                 If the path_name option-argument does not include a host name element, the qsub utility shall prefix
                 the pathname with hostname:, where hostname is the name of the host upon which the qsub  utility  is
                 being executed.

                 If  the  −e  option  is  not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the Error_Path at‐
                 tribute of the batch job to the host name and path  of  the  current  directory  of  the  submitting
                 process and the default filename.

                 The default filename for standard error has the following format:

                     job_name.esequence_number

       −h        Specify that a USER hold is applied to the batch job.

                 The qsub utility shall set the value of the Hold_Types attribute of the batch job to the value USER.

                 If  the  −h  option  is  not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the Hold_Types at‐
                 tribute of the batch job to the value NO_HOLD.

       −j join_list
                 Define which streams of the batch job are to be merged. The qsub −j option shall accept a value  for
                 the  join_list option-argument that is a string of alphanumeric characters in the portable character
                 set (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set).

                 The qsub utility shall accept a join_list option-argument that consists of one or more of the  char‐
                 acters 'e' and 'o', or the single character 'n'.

                 All  of  the  other  batch job output streams specified will be merged into the output stream repre‐
                 sented by the character listed first in the join_list option-argument.

                 For each unique character in the join_list option-argument, the qsub utility shall add  a  value  to
                 the  Join_Path attribute of the batch job as follows, each representing a different batch job stream
                 to join:

                 e     The standard error of the batch job (JOIN_STD_ERROR).

                 o     The standard output of the batch job (JOIN_STD_OUTPUT).

                 An existing Join_Path attribute can be cleared by the following join type:

                 n     NO_JOIN

                 If 'n' is specified, then no files are joined. The qsub utility shall consider it an  error  if  any
                 join type other than 'n' is combined with join type 'n'.

                 Strictly  conforming applications shall not repeat any of the characters 'e', 'o', or 'n' within the
                 join_list option-argument. The qsub utility shall permit the repetition of characters, but shall not
                 assign additional meaning to the repeated characters.

                 An implementation may define other join types. The conformance document for an implementation  shall
                 describe  any additional batch job streams, how they are specified, their internal behavior, and how
                 they affect the behavior of the utility.

                 If the −j option is not presented to the qsub utility, the  utility  shall  set  the  value  of  the
                 Join_Path attribute of the batch job to NO_JOIN.

       −k keep_list
                 Define which output of the batch job to retain on the execution host.

                 The  qsub  −k  option shall accept a value for the keep_list option-argument that is a string of al‐
                 phanumeric  characters  in  the  portable  character  set  (see  the  Base  Definitions  volume   of
                 POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set).

                 The  qsub utility shall accept a keep_list option-argument that consists of one or more of the char‐
                 acters 'e' and 'o', or the single character 'n'.

                 For each unique character in the keep_list option-argument, the qsub utility shall add  a  value  to
                 the Keep_Files attribute of the batch job as follows, each representing a different batch job stream
                 to keep:

                 e     The standard error of the batch job (KEEP_STD_ERROR).

                 o     The standard output of the batch job (KEEP_STD_OUTPUT).

                 If  both  'e'  and 'o' are specified, then both files are retained. An existing Keep_Files attribute
                 can be cleared by the following keep type:

                 n     NO_KEEP

                 If 'n' is specified, then no files are retained. The qsub utility shall consider it an error if  any
                 keep type other than 'n' is combined with keep type 'n'.

                 Strictly  conforming applications shall not repeat any of the characters 'e', 'o', or 'n' within the
                 keep_list option-argument. The qsub utility shall permit the repetition of characters, but shall not
                 assign additional meaning to the repeated characters.

                 An implementation may define other keep types. The conformance document for an implementation  shall
                 describe  any  additional  keep types, how they are specified, their internal behavior, and how they
                 affect the behavior of the utility. If the −k option is not presented to the qsub utility, the util‐
                 ity shall set the Keep_Files attribute of the batch job to the value NO_KEEP.

       −m mail_options
                 Define the points in the execution of the batch job at which the batch server that manages the batch
                 job shall send mail about a change in the state of the batch job.

                 The qsub −m option shall accept a value for the mail_options option-argument that is a string of al‐
                 phanumeric  characters  in  the  portable  character  set  (see  the  Base  Definitions  volume   of
                 POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set).

                 The  qsub  utility shall accept a value for the mail_options option-argument that is a string of one
                 or more of the characters 'e', 'b', and 'a', or the single character 'n'.

                 For each unique character in the mail_options option-argument, the qsub utility shall add a value to
                 the Mail_Users attribute of the batch job as follows, each representing a different time during  the
                 life of a batch job at which to send mail:

                 e     MAIL_AT_EXIT

                 b     MAIL_AT_BEGINNING

                 a     MAIL_AT_ABORT

                 If  any of these characters are duplicated in the mail_options option-argument, the duplicates shall
                 be ignored.

                 An existing Mail_Points attribute can be cleared by the following mail type:

                 n     NO_MAIL

                 If 'n' is specified, then mail is not sent. The qsub utility shall consider it an error if any  mail
                 type other than 'n' is combined with mail type 'n'.

                 Strictly conforming applications shall not repeat any of the characters 'e', 'b', 'a', or 'n' within
                 the mail_options option-argument.

                 The  qsub utility shall permit the repetition of characters, but shall not assign additional meaning
                 to the repeated characters. An implementation may define other mail types. The conformance  document
                 for an implementation shall describe any additional mail types, how they are specified, their inter‐
                 nal behavior, and how they affect the behavior of the utility.

                 If  the  −m  option  is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the Mail_Points at‐
                 tribute to the value MAIL_AT_ABORT.

       −M mail_list
                 Define the list of users to which a batch server that executes the batch job shall send mail, if the
                 server sends mail about the batch job.

                 The syntax of the mail_list option-argument is unspecified.

                 If the implementation of the qsub utility uses a name service to locate users,  the  utility  should
                 accept the syntax used by the name service.

                 If the implementation of the qsub utility does not use a name service to locate users, the implemen‐
                 tation should accept the following syntax for user names:

                     mail_address[,,mail_address,, ...]

                 The interpretation of mail_address is implementation-defined.

                 The  qsub  utility shall set the Mail_Users attribute of the batch job to the value of the mail_list
                 option-argument.

                 If the −M option is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall place only  the  user  name
                 and host name for the current process in the Mail_Users attribute of the batch job.

       −N name   Define the name of the batch job.

                 The  qsub  −N  option shall accept a value for the name option-argument that is a string of up to 15
                 alphanumeric characters  in  the  portable  character  set  (see  the  Base  Definitions  volume  of
                 POSIX.1‐2008, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set) where the first character is alphabetic.

                 The  qsub utility shall set the value of the Job_Name attribute of the batch job to the value of the
                 name option-argument.

                 If the −N option is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the Job_Name  attribute
                 of  the  batch job to the name of the script argument from which the directory specification if any,
                 has been removed.

                 If the −N option is not presented to the qsub utility, and the script is read from  standard  input,
                 the utility shall set the Job_Name attribute of the batch job to the value STDIN.

       −o path_name
                 Define the path for the standard output of the batch job.

                 The  qsub  utility  shall  accept  a  path_name  option-argument  that conforms to the syntax of the
                 path_name element defined in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, which can be preceded  by
                 a host name element of the form hostname:.

                 If  the  path_name  option-argument constitutes an absolute pathname, the qsub utility shall set the
                 Output_Path attribute of the batch job to the value of the path_name option-argument without  expan‐
                 sion.

                 If  the path_name option-argument constitutes a relative pathname and no host name element is speci‐
                 fied, the qsub utility shall set the Output_Path attribute of the batch job to the pathname  derived
                 by  expanding  the  value  of the path_name option-argument relative to the current directory of the
                 process executing the qsub.

                 If the path_name option-argument constitutes a relative pathname and a host name element  is  speci‐
                 fied,  the  qsub  utility  shall  set the Output_Path attribute of the batch job to the value of the
                 path_name option-argument without expansion.

                 If the path_name option-argument does not specify a host name element, the qsub utility shall prefix
                 the pathname with hostname:, where hostname is the name of the host upon which the qsub  utility  is
                 executing.

                 If  the  −o  option  is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the Output_Path at‐
                 tribute of the batch job to the host name and path  of  the  current  directory  of  the  submitting
                 process and the default filename.

                 The default filename for standard output has the following format:

                     job_name.osequence_number

       −p priority
                 Define  the  priority  the  batch  job  should  have relative to other batch jobs owned by the batch
                 server.

                 The qsub utility shall set the Priority attribute of the batch job to the value of the priority  op‐
                 tion-argument.

                 If the −p option is not presented to the qsub utility, the value of the Priority attribute is imple‐
                 mentation-defined.

                 The  qsub  utility shall accept a value for the priority option-argument that conforms to the syntax
                 for signed decimal integers, and which is not less than −1024 and not greater than 1023.

       −q destination
                 Define the destination of the batch job.

                 The destination is not a batch job attribute; it determines the batch server, and possibly the batch
                 queue, to which the qsub utility batch queues the batch job.

                 The qsub utility shall submit the script to the batch server named by the  destination  option-argu‐
                 ment or the server that owns the batch queue named in the destination option-argument.

                 The qsub utility shall accept an option-argument for the −q option that conforms to the syntax for a
                 destination (see Section 3.3.2, Destination).

                 If  the  −q option is not presented to the qsub utility, the qsub utility shall submit the batch job
                 to the default destination. The mechanism for determining the default destination is implementation-
                 defined.

       −r y|n    Define whether the batch job is rerunnable.

                 If the value of the option-argument is y, the qsub utility shall set the Rerunable attribute of  the
                 batch job to TRUE.

                 If  the value of the option-argument is n, the qsub utility shall set the Rerunable attribute of the
                 batch job to FALSE.

                 If the −r option is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the Rerunable attribute
                 of the batch job to TRUE.

       −S path_name_list
                 Define the pathname to the shell under which the batch job is to execute.

                 The qsub utility shall accept a path_name_list option-argument that conforms to the  following  syn‐
                 tax:

                     pathname[@host][,,pathname[@host],, ...]

                 The  qsub  utility shall allow only one pathname for a given host name. The qsub utility shall allow
                 only one pathname that is missing a corresponding host name.

                 The qsub utility shall add a value to the Shell_Path_List attribute of the batch job for each  entry
                 in the path_name_list option-argument.

                 If the −S option is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the Shell_Path_List at‐
                 tribute of the batch job to the null string.

                 The  conformance document for an implementation shall describe the mechanism used to set the default
                 shell and determine the current value of the default shell. An implementation shall provide a  means
                 for  the  installation to set the default shell to the login shell of the user under which the batch
                 job is to execute. See Section 3.3.3, Multiple Keyword-Value Pairs for  a  means  of  removing  key‐
                 word=value (and value@keyword) pairs and other general rules for list-oriented batch job attributes.

       −u user_list
                 Define the user name under which the batch job is to execute.

                 The qsub utility shall accept a user_list option-argument that conforms to the following syntax:

                     username[@host][,,username[@host],, ...]

                 The qsub utility shall accept only one user name that is missing a corresponding host name. The qsub
                 utility shall accept only one user name per named host.

                 The qsub utility shall add a value to the User_List attribute of the batch job for each entry in the
                 user_list option-argument.

                 If the −u option is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall set the User_List attribute
                 of  the  batch job to the user name from which the utility is executing. See Section 3.3.3, Multiple
                 Keyword-Value Pairs for a means of removing keyword=value (and value@keyword) pairs and  other  gen‐
                 eral rules for list-oriented batch job attributes.

       −v variable_list
                 Add to the list of variables that are exported to the session leader of the batch job.

                 A  variable_list is a set of strings of either the form <variable> or <variable=value>, delimited by
                 <comma> characters.

                 If the −v option is presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall also add,  to  the  environment
                 Variable_List  attribute of the batch job, every variable named in the environment variable_list op‐
                 tion-argument and, optionally, values of specified variables.

                 If a value is not provided on the command line, the qsub utility shall set the value of  each  vari‐
                 able  in  the environment Variable_List attribute of the batch job to the value of the corresponding
                 environment variable for the process in which the utility is executing; see Table 4-19,  Environment
                 Variable Values (Utilities).

                 A  conforming  application shall not repeat a variable in the environment variable_list option-argu‐
                 ment.

                 The qsub utility shall not repeat a variable in the environment Variable_List attribute of the batch
                 job. See Section 3.3.3, Multiple Keyword-Value Pairs for a  means  of  removing  keyword=value  (and
                 value@keyword) pairs and other general rules for list-oriented batch job attributes.

       −V        Specify  that  all  of  the  environment variables of the process are exported to the context of the
                 batch job.

                 The qsub utility shall place every environment variable in the process in which the utility is  exe‐
                 cuting  in  the  list and shall set the value of each variable in the attribute to the value of that
                 variable in the process.

       −z        Specify that the utility does not write the batch job_identifier of the created batch job  to  stan‐
                 dard output.

                 If the −z option is presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall not write the batch job_identi‐
                 fier of the created batch job to standard output.

                 If the −z option is not presented to the qsub utility, the utility shall write the identifier of the
                 created batch job to standard output.

OPERANDS
       The qsub utility shall accept a script operand that indicates the path to the script of the batch job.

       If  the  script operand is not presented to the qsub utility, or if the operand is the single-character string
       '−', the utility shall read the script from standard input.

       If the script represents a partial path, the qsub utility shall expand the path relative to the current direc‐
       tory of the process executing the utility.

STDIN
       The qsub utility reads the script of the batch job from standard input if the script operand is omitted or  is
       the single character '−'.

INPUT FILES
       In  addition  to binding the file indicated by the script operand to the batch job, the qsub utility reads the
       script file and acts on directives in the script.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of qsub:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables  the  precedence  of
                 internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       LOGNAME   Determine the login name of the user.

       PBS_DPREFIX
                 Determine the default prefix for directives within the script.

       SHELL     Determine the pathname of the preferred command language interpreter of the user.

       TZ        Determine the timezone used to interpret the date-time option-argument. If TZ is unset or  null,  an
                 unspecified default timezone shall be used.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Once created, a batch job exists until it exits, aborts, or is deleted.

       After  a  batch  job is created by the qsub utility, batch servers might route, execute, modify, or delete the
       batch job.

STDOUT
       The qsub utility writes the batch job_identifier assigned to the batch job to standard output, unless  the  −z
       option is specified.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
   Script Preservation
       The  qsub utility shall make the script available to the server executing the batch job in such a way that the
       server executes the script as it exists at the time of submission.

       The qsub utility can send a copy of the script to the server with the Queue Job Request or store  a  temporary
       copy of the script in a location specified to the server.

   Option Specification
       A script can contain directives to the qsub utility.

       The qsub utility shall scan the lines of the script for directives, skipping blank lines, until the first line
       that  begins with a string other than the directive string; if directives occur on subsequent lines, the util‐
       ity shall ignore those directives.

       Lines are separated by a <newline>.  If the first line of the script begins with "#!" or a <colon> (':'), then
       it is skipped. The qsub utility shall process a line in the script as a directive if and only if the string of
       characters from the first non-white-space character on the line until the first <space> or <tab> on  the  line
       match  the directive prefix. If a line in the script contains a directive and the final characters of the line
       are <backslash> and <newline>, then the next line shall be interpreted as a continuation of that directive.

       The qsub utility shall process the options and option-arguments contained on the directive prefix  line  using
       the same syntax as if the options were input on the qsub utility.

       The  qsub utility shall continue to process a directive prefix line until after a <newline> is encountered. An
       implementation may ignore lines which, according to the syntax of the shell that will  interpret  the  script,
       are  comments.   An implementation shall describe in the conformance document the format of any shell comments
       that it will recognize.

       If an option is present in both a directive and the arguments to the qsub utility, the  utility  shall  ignore
       the option and the corresponding option-argument, if any, in the directive.

       If an option that is present in the directive is not present in the arguments to the qsub utility, the utility
       shall process the option and the option-argument, if any.

       In order of preference, the qsub utility shall select the directive prefix from one of the following sources:

        *  If the −C option is presented to the utility, the value of the directive_prefix option-argument

        *  If the environment variable PBS_DPREFIX is defined, the value of that variable

        *  The four-character string "#PBS" encoded in the portable character set

       If the −C option is present in the script file it shall be ignored.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  qsub  utility allows users to create a batch job that will process the script specified as the operand of
       the utility.

       The options of the qsub utility allow users to control many aspects of the queuing and execution  of  a  batch
       job.

       The  −a  option  allows  users to designate the time after which the batch job will become eligible to run. By
       specifying an execution time, users can take advantage of resources at off-peak hours, synchronize  jobs  with
       chronologically  predictable  events,  and  perhaps  take advantage of off-peak pricing of computing time. For
       these reasons and others, a timing option is existing practice on the part of almost every batch  system,  in‐
       cluding NQS.

       The  −A option allows users to specify the account that will be charged for the batch job. Support for account
       is not mandatory for conforming batch servers.

       The −C option allows users to prescribe the prefix for directives within the script file. The  default  prefix
       "#PBS"  may be inappropriate if the script will be interpreted with an alternate shell, as specified by the −S
       option.

       The −c option allows users to establish the checkpointing interval for their  jobs.  A  checkpointing  system,
       which  is not defined by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, allows recovery of a batch job at the most recent check‐
       point in the event of a crash. Checkpointing is typically used for jobs that consume expensive computing  time
       or  must meet a critical schedule. Users should be allowed to make the tradeoff between the overhead of check‐
       pointing and the risk to the timely completion of the batch job; therefore, this volume of  POSIX.1‐2008  pro‐
       vides the checkpointing interval option. Support for checkpointing is optional for batch servers.

       The −e option allows users to redirect the standard error streams of their jobs to a non-default path. For ex‐
       ample,  if the submitted script generally produces a great deal of useless error output, a user might redirect
       the standard error output to the null device. Or, if the file system holding the default  location  (the  home
       directory  of the user) has too little free space, the user might redirect the standard error stream to a file
       in another file system.

       The −h option allows users to create a batch job that is held until explicitly released. The ability to create
       a held job is useful when some external event must complete before the batch job can execute. For example, the
       user might submit a held job and release it when the system load has dropped.

       The −j option allows users to merge the standard error of a batch job into its standard output  stream,  which
       has the advantage of showing the sequential relationship between output and error messages.

       The  −m  option  allows  users to designate those points in the execution of a batch job at which mail will be
       sent to the submitting user, or to the account(s) indicated by the −M option. By requesting mail  notification
       at  points  of  interest  in  the life of a job, the submitting user, or other designated users, can track the
       progress of a batch job.

       The −N option allows users to associate a name with the batch job. The job name in no way affects the process‐
       ing of the batch job, but rather serves as a mnemonic handle for users. For example, the batch  job  name  can
       help the user distinguish between multiple jobs listed by the qstat utility.

       The −o option allows users to redirect the standard output stream. A user might, for example, wish to redirect
       to the null device the standard output stream of a job that produces copious yet superfluous output.

       The −P option allows users to designate the relative priority of a batch job for selection from a queue.

       The  −q  option  allows  users  to specify an initial queue for the batch job. If the user specifies a routing
       queue, the batch server routes the batch job to another queue for execution or further routing.  If  the  user
       specifies a non-routing queue, the batch server of the queue eventually executes the batch job.

       The  −r  option  allows users to control whether the submitted job will be rerun if the controlling batch node
       fails during execution of the batch job.  The −r option likewise allows users to indicate whether or  not  the
       batch  job  is  eligible  to  be  rerun  by the qrerun utility. Some jobs cannot be correctly rerun because of
       changes they make in the  state  of  databases  or  other  aspects  of  their  environment.   This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008  specifies  that  the default, if the −r option is not presented to the utility, will be that the
       batch job cannot be rerun, since the result of rerunning a non-rerunnable job might be catastrophic.

       The −S option allows users to specify the program (usually a shell) that will be invoked to process the script
       of the batch job. This option has been modified to allow a list of shell names and locations  associated  with
       different hosts.

       The  −u  option is useful when the submitting user is authorized to use more than one account on a given host,
       in which case the −u option allows the user to select from among those accounts. The option-argument is a list
       of user-host pairs, so that the submitting user can provide different user identifiers for different nodes  in
       the  event the batch job is routed. The −u option provides a lot of flexibility to accommodate sites with com‐
       plex account structures. Users that have the same user identifier on all the hosts they are authorized to  use
       will not need to use the −u option.

       The  −V option allows users to export all their current environment variables, as of the time the batch job is
       submitted, to the context of the processes of the batch job.

       The −v option allows users to export  specific  environment  variables  from  their  current  process  to  the
       processes of the batch job.

       The  −z option allows users to suppress the writing of the batch job identifier to standard output. The −z op‐
       tion is an existing NQS practice that has been standardized.

       Historically, the qsub utility has served the batch job-submission function in the NQS  system,  the  existing
       practice on which it is based. Some changes and additions have been made to the qsub utility in this volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008, vis-a-vis NQS, as a result of the growing pool of experience with distributed batch systems.

       The  set  of features of the qsub utility as defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 appears to incorporate all
       the common existing practice on potentially conforming platforms.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The qsub utility may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 3, Batch Environment Services, qrerun, qstat, touch

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.150, Epoch, Section 6.1, Portable Character Set,  Chap‐
       ter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                QSUB(1P)
