READONLY(1P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  READONLY(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       readonly — set the readonly attribute for variables

SYNOPSIS
       readonly name[=word]...

       readonly −p

DESCRIPTION
       The  variables  whose  names are specified shall be given the readonly attribute. The values of variables with
       the readonly attribute cannot be changed by subsequent assignment, nor can those variables be unset by the un‐
       set utility. If the name of a variable is followed by =word, then the value of that variable shall be  set  to
       word.

       The readonly special built-in shall support the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility
       Syntax Guidelines.

       When  −p is specified, readonly writes to the standard output the names and values of all read-only variables,
       in the following format:

           "readonly %s=%s\n", <name>, <value>

       if name is set, and

           "readonly %s\n", <name>

       if name is unset.

       The shell shall format the output, including the proper use of quoting, so that it is suitable for reinput  to
       the  shell as commands that achieve the same value and readonly attribute-setting results in a shell execution
       environment in which:

        1. Variables with values at the time they were output do not have the readonly attribute set.

        2. Variables that were unset at the time they were output do not have a value at the time at which the  saved
           output is reinput to the shell.

       When no arguments are given, the results are unspecified.

OPTIONS
       See the DESCRIPTION.

OPERANDS
       See the DESCRIPTION.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       None.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       See the DESCRIPTION.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       Zero.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       readonly HOME PWD

RATIONALE
       Some  historical  shells  preserve  the  readonly  attribute  across  separate  invocations.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 allows this behavior, but does not require it.

       The −p option allows portable access to the values that can be saved and then later restored using, for  exam‐
       ple,  a dot script. Also see the RATIONALE for export for a description of the no-argument and −p output cases
       and a related example.

       Read-only functions were considered, but they were omitted as not being historical  practice  or  particularly
       useful.  Furthermore, functions must not be read-only across invocations to preclude ``spoofing'' (spoofing is
       the term for the practice of creating a program that acts like a well-known utility with the  intent  of  sub‐
       verting  the  real  intent  of  the user) of administrative or security-relevant (or security-conscious) shell
       scripts.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.14, Special Built-In Utilities

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            READONLY(1P)
