REALLOC(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   REALLOC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       realloc — memory reallocator

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void *realloc(void *ptr, size_t size);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The realloc() function shall deallocate the old object pointed to by ptr and return a pointer to a new  object
       that  has the size specified by size.  The contents of the new object shall be the same as that of the old ob‐
       ject prior to deallocation, up to the lesser of the new and old sizes. Any bytes in the new object beyond  the
       size  of  the  old  object have indeterminate values. If the size of the space requested is zero, the behavior
       shall be implementation-defined: either a null pointer is returned, or the behavior shall be as  if  the  size
       were some non-zero value, except that the returned pointer shall not be used to access an object. If the space
       cannot be allocated, the object shall remain unchanged.

       If ptr is a null pointer, realloc() shall be equivalent to malloc() for the specified size.

       If  ptr does not match a pointer returned earlier by calloc(), malloc(), or realloc() or if the space has pre‐
       viously been deallocated by a call to free() or realloc(), the behavior is undefined.

       The order and contiguity of storage allocated by successive calls to realloc() is unspecified. The pointer re‐
       turned if the allocation succeeds shall be suitably aligned so that it may be assigned to  a  pointer  to  any
       type  of  object  and then used to access such an object in the space allocated (until the space is explicitly
       freed or reallocated). Each such allocation shall yield a pointer to an object disjoint from any other object.
       The pointer returned shall point to the start (lowest byte address) of the allocated space. If the space  can‐
       not be allocated, a null pointer shall be returned.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, realloc() shall return a pointer to the (possibly moved) allocated space. If size
       is 0, either:

        *  A null pointer shall be returned and errno set to an implementation-defined value.

        *  A unique pointer that can be successfully passed to free()  shall  be  returned,  and  the  memory  object
           pointed  to  by ptr shall be freed. The application shall ensure that the pointer is not used to access an
           object.

       If there is not enough available memory, realloc() shall return a null pointer and set errno to [ENOMEM].   If
       realloc() returns a null pointer and errno has been set to [ENOMEM], the memory referenced by ptr shall not be
       changed.

ERRORS
       The realloc() function shall fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory is available.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  description  of  realloc()  has  been  modified from previous versions of this standard to align with the
       ISO/IEC 9899:1999 standard. Previous versions explicitly permitted a call to realloc(p, 0) to free  the  space
       pointed  to by p and return a null pointer. While this behavior could be interpreted as permitted by this ver‐
       sion of the standard, the C language committee have indicated that this interpretation is incorrect.  Applica‐
       tions  should  assume  that if realloc() returns a null pointer, the space pointed to by p has not been freed.
       Since this could lead to double-frees, implementations should also set errno if a null pointer actually  indi‐
       cates a failure, and applications should only free the space if errno was changed.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       This standard defers to the ISO C standard. While that standard currently has language that might permit real‐
       loc(p,  0),  where  p is not a null pointer, to free p while still returning a null pointer, the committee re‐
       sponsible for that standard is considering clarifying the language to explicitly prohibit that alternative.

SEE ALSO
       calloc(), free(), malloc()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             REALLOC(3P)
