RECV(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      RECV(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       recv — receive a message from a connected socket

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       ssize_t recv(int socket, void *buffer, size_t length, int flags);

DESCRIPTION
       The  recv()  function shall receive a message from a connection-mode or connectionless-mode socket. It is nor‐
       mally used with connected sockets because it does not permit the application to retrieve the source address of
       received data.

       The recv() function takes the following arguments:

       socket    Specifies the socket file descriptor.

       buffer    Points to a buffer where the message should be stored.

       length    Specifies the length in bytes of the buffer pointed to by the buffer argument.

       flags     Specifies the type of message reception. Values of this argument are formed by logically OR'ing zero
                 or more of the following values:

                 MSG_PEEK    Peeks at an incoming message. The data is treated as unread and the next recv() or simi‐
                             lar function shall still return this data.

                 MSG_OOB     Requests out-of-band data. The significance and semantics of out-of-band data are proto‐
                             col-specific.

                 MSG_WAITALL On SOCK_STREAM sockets this requests that the function block until the  full  amount  of
                             data  can  be returned. The function may return the smaller amount of data if the socket
                             is a message-based socket, if a signal is caught, if the connection  is  terminated,  if
                             MSG_PEEK was specified, or if an error is pending for the socket.

       The  recv() function shall return the length of the message written to the buffer pointed to by the buffer ar‐
       gument. For message-based sockets, such as SOCK_DGRAM and SOCK_SEQPACKET, the entire message shall be read  in
       a  single  operation.   If a message is too long to fit in the supplied buffer, and MSG_PEEK is not set in the
       flags argument, the excess bytes shall be discarded. For stream-based sockets, such  as  SOCK_STREAM,  message
       boundaries shall be ignored. In this case, data shall be returned to the user as soon as it becomes available,
       and no data shall be discarded.

       If the MSG_WAITALL flag is not set, data shall be returned only up to the end of the first message.

       If  no  messages are available at the socket and O_NONBLOCK is not set on the socket's file descriptor, recv()
       shall block until a message arrives. If no messages are available at the socket and O_NONBLOCK is set  on  the
       socket's file descriptor, recv() shall fail and set errno to [EAGAIN] or [EWOULDBLOCK].

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, recv() shall return the length of the message in bytes. If no messages are avail‐
       able to be received and the peer has performed an orderly shutdown, recv() shall return 0. Otherwise, −1 shall
       be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The recv() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN or EWOULDBLOCK
              The socket's file descriptor is marked O_NONBLOCK and no data is waiting to be received; or MSG_OOB  is
              set  and  no out-of-band data is available and either the socket's file descriptor is marked O_NONBLOCK
              or the socket does not support blocking to await out-of-band data.

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ECONNRESET
              A connection was forcibly closed by a peer.

       EINTR  The recv() function was interrupted by a signal that was caught, before any data was available.

       EINVAL The MSG_OOB flag is set and no out-of-band data is available.

       ENOTCONN
              A receive is attempted on a connection-mode socket that is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The specified flags are not supported for this socket type or protocol.

       ETIMEDOUT
              The connection timed out during connection establishment, or due to a transmission  timeout  on  active
              connection.

       The recv() function may fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  recv()  function  is equivalent to recvfrom() with null pointer address and address_len arguments, and to
       read() if the socket argument refers to a socket and the flags argument is 0.

       The select() and poll() functions can be used to determine when data is available to be received.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       poll(), pselect(), read(), recvmsg(), recvfrom(), send(), sendmsg(), sendto(), shutdown(), socket(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                RECV(3P)
