RECVMSG(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   RECVMSG(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       recvmsg — receive a message from a socket

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       ssize_t recvmsg(int socket, struct msghdr *message, int flags);

DESCRIPTION
       The  recvmsg()  function  shall  receive a message from a connection-mode or connectionless-mode socket. It is
       normally used with connectionless-mode sockets because it permits the application to retrieve the  source  ad‐
       dress of received data.

       The recvmsg() function takes the following arguments:

       socket      Specifies the socket file descriptor.

       message     Points  to  a  msghdr  structure,  containing  both the buffer to store the source address and the
                   buffers for the incoming message. The length and format of the address depend on the address  fam‐
                   ily  of the socket. The msg_flags member is ignored on input, but may contain meaningful values on
                   output.

       flags       Specifies the type of message reception. Values of this argument are formed  by  logically  OR'ing
                   zero or more of the following values:

                   MSG_OOB     Requests out-of-band data. The significance and semantics of out-of-band data are pro‐
                               tocol-specific.

                   MSG_PEEK    Peeks at the incoming message.

                   MSG_WAITALL On  SOCK_STREAM sockets this requests that the function block until the full amount of
                               data can be returned. The function may return the smaller amount of data if the socket
                               is a message-based socket, if a signal is caught, if the connection is terminated,  if
                               MSG_PEEK was specified, or if an error is pending for the socket.

       The  recvmsg()  function  shall  receive  messages  from unconnected or connected sockets and shall return the
       length of the message.

       The recvmsg() function shall return the total length of  the  message.  For  message-based  sockets,  such  as
       SOCK_DGRAM  and  SOCK_SEQPACKET,  the  entire message shall be read in a single operation. If a message is too
       long to fit in the supplied buffers, and MSG_PEEK is not set in the flags argument, the excess bytes shall  be
       discarded,  and MSG_TRUNC shall be set in the msg_flags member of the msghdr structure. For stream-based sock‐
       ets, such as SOCK_STREAM, message boundaries shall be ignored. In this case, data shall  be  returned  to  the
       user as soon as it becomes available, and no data shall be discarded.

       If the MSG_WAITALL flag is not set, data shall be returned only up to the end of the first message.

       If  no  messages  are  available  at  the  socket  and  O_NONBLOCK is not set on the socket's file descriptor,
       recvmsg() shall block until a message arrives. If no messages are available at the socket  and  O_NONBLOCK  is
       set  on  the socket's file descriptor, the recvmsg() function shall fail and set errno to [EAGAIN] or [EWOULD‐
       BLOCK].

       In the msghdr structure, the msg_name member may be a null pointer if the  source  address  is  not  required.
       Otherwise,  if  the  socket  is  unconnected,  the msg_name member points to a sockaddr structure in which the
       source address is to be stored, and the msg_namelen member on input specifies the length of the supplied sock‐
       addr structure and on output specifies the length of the stored address.  If the actual length of the  address
       is  greater  than the length of the supplied sockaddr structure, the stored address shall be truncated. If the
       socket is connected, the msg_name and msg_namelen members shall be ignored. The msg_iov and msg_iovlen  fields
       are  used  to specify where the received data shall be stored.  The msg_iov member points to an array of iovec
       structures; the msg_iovlen member shall be set to the dimension of this array. In each  iovec  structure,  the
       iov_base field specifies a storage area and the iov_len field gives its size in bytes. Each storage area indi‐
       cated  by  msg_iov is filled with received data in turn until all of the received data is stored or all of the
       areas have been filled.

       Upon successful completion, the msg_flags member of the message header shall be the  bitwise-inclusive  OR  of
       all of the following flags that indicate conditions detected for the received message:

       MSG_EOR     End-of-record was received (if supported by the protocol).

       MSG_OOB     Out-of-band data was received.

       MSG_TRUNC   Normal data was truncated.

       MSG_CTRUNC  Control data was truncated.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  recvmsg()  shall  return the length of the message in bytes. If no messages are
       available to be received and the peer has performed an orderly shutdown, recvmsg() shall return 0.  Otherwise,
       −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The recvmsg() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN or EWOULDBLOCK
              The  socket's file descriptor is marked O_NONBLOCK and no data is waiting to be received; or MSG_OOB is
              set and no out-of-band data is available and either the socket's file descriptor is  marked  O_NONBLOCK
              or the socket does not support blocking to await out-of-band data.

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid open file descriptor.

       ECONNRESET
              A connection was forcibly closed by a peer.

       EINTR  This function was interrupted by a signal before any data was available.

       EINVAL The  sum  of the iov_len values overflows a ssize_t, or the MSG_OOB flag is set and no out-of-band data
              is available.

       EMSGSIZE
              The msg_iovlen member of the msghdr structure pointed to by message is less than or equal to 0,  or  is
              greater than {IOV_MAX}.

       ENOTCONN
              A receive is attempted on a connection-mode socket that is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The specified flags are not supported for this socket type.

       ETIMEDOUT
              The  connection  timed  out during connection establishment, or due to a transmission timeout on active
              connection.

       The recvmsg() function may fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The select() and poll() functions can be used to determine when data is available to be received.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       poll(), pselect(), recv(), recvfrom(), send(), sendmsg(), sendto(), shutdown(), socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             RECVMSG(3P)
