RECVFROM(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  RECVFROM(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       recvfrom — receive a message from a socket

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       ssize_t recvfrom(int socket, void *restrict buffer, size_t length,
           int flags, struct sockaddr *restrict address,
           socklen_t *restrict address_len);

DESCRIPTION
       The  recvfrom()  function  shall receive a message from a connection-mode or connectionless-mode socket. It is
       normally used with connectionless-mode sockets because it permits the application to retrieve the  source  ad‐
       dress of received data.

       The recvfrom() function takes the following arguments:

       socket      Specifies the socket file descriptor.

       buffer      Points to the buffer where the message should be stored.

       length      Specifies the length in bytes of the buffer pointed to by the buffer argument.

       flags       Specifies  the  type  of message reception. Values of this argument are formed by logically OR'ing
                   zero or more of the following values:

                   MSG_PEEK    Peeks at an incoming message. The data is treated as unread and the next recvfrom() or
                               similar function shall still return this data.

                   MSG_OOB     Requests out-of-band data. The significance and semantics of out-of-band data are pro‐
                               tocol-specific.

                   MSG_WAITALL On SOCK_STREAM sockets this requests that the function block until the full amount  of
                               data can be returned. The function may return the smaller amount of data if the socket
                               is  a message-based socket, if a signal is caught, if the connection is terminated, if
                               MSG_PEEK was specified, or if an error is pending for the socket.

       address     A null pointer, or points to a sockaddr structure in which the sending address is  to  be  stored.
                   The length and format of the address depend on the address family of the socket.

       address_len Either  a  null pointer, if address is a null pointer, or a pointer to a socklen_t object which on
                   input specifies the length of the supplied sockaddr structure, and on output specifies the  length
                   of the stored address.

       The  recvfrom() function shall return the length of the message written to the buffer pointed to by the buffer
       argument. For message-based sockets, such as SOCK_RAW, SOCK_DGRAM,  and  SOCK_SEQPACKET,  the  entire  message
       shall  be  read in a single operation. If a message is too long to fit in the supplied buffer, and MSG_PEEK is
       not set in the flags argument, the excess  bytes  shall  be  discarded.  For  stream-based  sockets,  such  as
       SOCK_STREAM,  message boundaries shall be ignored. In this case, data shall be returned to the user as soon as
       it becomes available, and no data shall be discarded.

       If the MSG_WAITALL flag is not set, data shall be returned only up to the end of the first message.

       Not all protocols provide the source address for messages. If the address argument is not a null  pointer  and
       the  protocol  provides  the  source  address of messages, the source address of the received message shall be
       stored in the sockaddr structure pointed to by the address argument, and the length of this address  shall  be
       stored in the object pointed to by the address_len argument.

       If  the actual length of the address is greater than the length of the supplied sockaddr structure, the stored
       address shall be truncated.

       If the address argument is not a null pointer and the protocol does not provide the  source  address  of  mes‐
       sages, the value stored in the object pointed to by address is unspecified.

       If  no  messages  are  available  at  the  socket  and  O_NONBLOCK is not set on the socket's file descriptor,
       recvfrom() shall block until a message arrives. If no messages are available at the socket and  O_NONBLOCK  is
       set on the socket's file descriptor, recvfrom() shall fail and set errno to [EAGAIN] or [EWOULDBLOCK].

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  recvfrom()  shall return the length of the message in bytes. If no messages are
       available to be received and the peer has performed an orderly shutdown, recvfrom() shall return 0. Otherwise,
       the function shall return −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The recvfrom() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN or EWOULDBLOCK
              The socket's file descriptor is marked O_NONBLOCK and no data is waiting to be received; or MSG_OOB  is
              set  and  no out-of-band data is available and either the socket's file descriptor is marked O_NONBLOCK
              or the socket does not support blocking to await out-of-band data.

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ECONNRESET
              A connection was forcibly closed by a peer.

       EINTR  A signal interrupted recvfrom() before any data was available.

       EINVAL The MSG_OOB flag is set and no out-of-band data is available.

       ENOTCONN
              A receive is attempted on a connection-mode socket that is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The specified flags are not supported for this socket type.

       ETIMEDOUT
              The connection timed out during connection establishment, or due to a transmission  timeout  on  active
              connection.

       The recvfrom() function may fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The select() and poll() functions can be used to determine when data is available to be received.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       poll(), pselect(), read(), recv(), recvmsg(), send(), sendmsg(), sendto(), shutdown(), socket(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            RECVFROM(3P)
