RENAME(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    RENAME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       rename, renameat — rename file relative to directory file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int rename(const char *old, const char *new);
       int renameat(int oldfd, const char *old, int newfd,
           const char *new);

DESCRIPTION
       For  rename(): The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict between the requirements described here  and  the  ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  rename() function shall change the name of a file. The old argument points to the pathname of the file to
       be renamed. The new argument points to the new pathname of the file.  If the new argument does not resolve  to
       an  existing  directory  entry  for  a  file  of  type  directory  and  the new argument contains at least one
       non-<slash> character and ends with one or more trailing <slash> characters after all symbolic links have been
       processed, rename() shall fail.

       If either the old or new argument names a symbolic link, rename() shall operate on the symbolic  link  itself,
       and  shall not resolve the last component of the argument. If the old argument and the new argument resolve to
       either the same existing directory entry or different directory entries for the same existing  file,  rename()
       shall return successfully and perform no other action.

       If the old argument points to the pathname of a file that is not a directory, the new argument shall not point
       to  the pathname of a directory. If the link named by the new argument exists, it shall be removed and old re‐
       named to new.  In this case, a link named new shall remain visible to other processes throughout the  renaming
       operation and refer either to the file referred to by new or old before the operation began. Write access per‐
       mission is required for both the directory containing old and the directory containing new.

       If the old argument points to the pathname of a directory, the new argument shall not point to the pathname of
       a file that is not a directory. If the directory named by the new argument exists, it shall be removed and old
       renamed  to new.  In this case, a link named new shall exist throughout the renaming operation and shall refer
       either to the directory referred to by new or old before the operation began. If new names an existing  direc‐
       tory, it shall be required to be an empty directory.

       If  either  pathname  argument refers to a path whose final component is either dot or dot-dot, rename() shall
       fail.

       If the old argument points to a pathname of a symbolic link, the symbolic link shall be renamed.  If  the  new
       argument points to a pathname of a symbolic link, the symbolic link shall be removed.

       The old pathname shall not name an ancestor directory of the new pathname. Write access permission is required
       for the directory containing old and the directory containing new.  If the old argument points to the pathname
       of a directory, write access permission may be required for the directory named by old, and, if it exists, the
       directory named by new.

       If  the  link  named  by the new argument exists and the file's link count becomes 0 when it is removed and no
       process has the file open, the space occupied by the file shall be freed and the file shall no longer  be  ac‐
       cessible. If one or more processes have the file open when the last link is removed, the link shall be removed
       before  rename()  returns, but the removal of the file contents shall be postponed until all references to the
       file are closed.

       Upon successful completion, rename() shall mark for update the last data modification  and  last  file  status
       change timestamps of the parent directory of each file.

       If the rename() function fails for any reason other than [EIO], any file named by new shall be unaffected.

       The  renameat()  function  shall be equivalent to the rename() function except in the case where either old or
       new specifies a relative path. If old is a relative path, the file to be renamed is located  relative  to  the
       directory associated with the file descriptor oldfd instead of the current working directory. If new is a rel‐
       ative path, the same happens only relative to the directory associated with newfd.  If the file descriptor was
       opened  without  O_SEARCH, the function shall check whether directory searches are permitted using the current
       permissions of the directory underlying the file descriptor. If the file descriptor was opened with  O_SEARCH,
       the function shall not perform the check.

       If renameat() is passed the special value AT_FDCWD in the oldfd or newfd parameter, the current working direc‐
       tory shall be used in the determination of the file for the respective path parameter.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion, the rename() function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return −1, errno shall
       be set to indicate the error, and neither the file named by old nor the file named by new shall be changed  or
       created.

       Upon  successful completion, the renameat() function shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return −1 and set er‐
       rno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The rename() and renameat() functions shall fail if:

       EACCES A component of either path prefix denies search permission; or one of the directories containing old or
              new denies write permissions; or, write permission is required and is denied for a directory pointed to
              by the old or new arguments.

       EBUSY  The directory named by old or new is currently in use by the system or another process, and the  imple‐
              mentation considers this an error.

       [EEXIST] or [ENOTEMPTY]
                   The link named by new is a directory that is not an empty directory.

       EINVAL      The old pathname names an ancestor directory of the new pathname, or either pathname argument con‐
                   tains a final component that is dot or dot-dot.

       EIO         A physical I/O error has occurred.

       EISDIR      The  new argument points to a directory and the old argument points to a file that is not a direc‐
                   tory.

       ELOOP       A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       EMLINK      The file named by old is a directory, and the link count of the parent directory of new would  ex‐
                   ceed {LINK_MAX}.

       ENAMETOOLONG
                   The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT      The  link  named by old does not name an existing file, a component of the path prefix of new does
                   not exist, or either old or new points to an empty string.

       ENOSPC      The directory that would contain new cannot be extended.

       ENOTDIR     A component of either path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory  nor  a  sym‐
                   bolic link to a directory; or the old argument names a directory and the new argument names a non-
                   directory  file; or the old argument contains at least one non-<slash> character and ends with one
                   or more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname component names an existing file that is
                   neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory; or the old argument names an existing non-
                   directory file and the new argument names a nonexistent file, contains at  least  one  non-<slash>
                   character, and ends with one or more trailing <slash> characters; or the new argument names an ex‐
                   isting  non-directory file, contains at least one non-<slash> character, and ends with one or more
                   trailing <slash> characters.

       EPERM or EACCES
                   The S_ISVTX flag is set on the directory containing the file referred to by old  and  the  process
                   does  not  satisfy  the criteria specified in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section
                   4.2, Directory Protection with respect to old; or new refers to an existing file, the S_ISVTX flag
                   is set on the directory containing this file, and the process does not satisfy the criteria speci‐
                   fied in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.2, Directory  Protection  with  re‐
                   spect to this file.

       EROFS       The requested operation requires writing in a directory on a read-only file system.

       EXDEV       The  links named by new and old are on different file systems and the implementation does not sup‐
                   port links between file systems.

       In addition, the renameat() function shall fail if:

       EACCES oldfd or newfd was not opened with O_SEARCH and the permissions of the directory  underlying  oldfd  or
              newfd respectively do not permit directory searches.

       EBADF  The  old  argument  does  not specify an absolute path and the oldfd argument is neither AT_FDCWD nor a
              valid file descriptor open for reading or searching, or the new argument does not specify  an  absolute
              path and the newfd argument is neither AT_FDCWD nor a valid file descriptor open for reading or search‐
              ing.

       ENOTDIR
              The  old or new argument is not an absolute path and oldfd or newfd, respectively, is a file descriptor
              associated with a non-directory file.

       The rename() and renameat() functions may fail if:

       EBUSY  The file named by the old or new arguments is a named STREAM.

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       ETXTBSY
              The  file  named  by  new exists and is the last directory entry to a pure procedure (shared text) file
              that is being executed.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Renaming a File
       The following example shows how to rename a file named /home/cnd/mod1 to /home/cnd/mod2.

           #include <stdio.h>

           int status;
           ...
           status = rename("/home/cnd/mod1", "/home/cnd/mod2");

APPLICATION USAGE
       Some implementations mark for update the last file status change timestamp of renamed files and some  do  not.
       Applications  which  make  use of the last file status change timestamp may behave differently with respect to
       renamed files unless they are designed to allow for either behavior.

RATIONALE
       This rename() function is equivalent for regular files to that defined by the ISO C standard.   Its  inclusion
       here  expands  that definition to include actions on directories and specifies behavior when the new parameter
       names a file that already exists. That specification requires that the action of the function be atomic.

       One of the reasons for introducing this function was to have a means of renaming directories while  permitting
       implementations to prohibit the use of link() and unlink() with directories, thus constraining links to direc‐
       tories to those made by mkdir().

       The specification that if old and new refer to the same file is intended to guarantee that:

           rename("x", "x");

       does not remove the file.

       Renaming dot or dot-dot is prohibited in order to prevent cyclical file system paths.

       See also the descriptions of [ENOTEMPTY] and [ENAMETOOLONG] in rmdir() and [EBUSY] in unlink().  For a discus‐
       sion of [EXDEV], see link().

       The purpose of the renameat() function is to rename files in directories other than the current working direc‐
       tory  without  exposure  to  race conditions. Any part of the path of a file could be changed in parallel to a
       call to rename(), resulting in unspecified behavior. By opening file descriptors for the source and target di‐
       rectories and using the renameat() function it can be guaranteed that that renamed file is  located  correctly
       and the resulting file is in the desired directory.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       link(), rmdir(), symlink(), unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.2, Directory Protection, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              RENAME(3P)
