REWINDDIR(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 REWINDDIR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       rewinddir — reset the position of a directory stream to the beginning of a directory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <dirent.h>

       void rewinddir(DIR *dirp);

DESCRIPTION
       The  rewinddir()  function shall reset the position of the directory stream to which dirp refers to the begin‐
       ning of the directory. It shall also cause the directory stream to refer to the current state  of  the  corre‐
       sponding  directory, as a call to opendir() would have done. If dirp does not refer to a directory stream, the
       effect is undefined.

       After a call to the fork() function, either the parent or child (but not both) may continue processing the di‐
       rectory stream using readdir(), rewinddir(), or seekdir().  If both the parent and child processes  use  these
       functions, the result is undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       The rewinddir() function shall not return a value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  rewinddir()  function  should be used in conjunction with opendir(), readdir(), and closedir() to examine
       the contents of the directory. This method is recommended for portability.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       closedir(), fdopendir(), readdir()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <dirent.h>, <sys_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           REWINDDIR(3P)
