RINT(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      RINT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       rint, rintf, rintl — round-to-nearest integral value

SYNOPSIS
       #include <math.h>

       double rint(double x);
       float rintf(float x);
       long double rintl(long double x);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall return the integral value (represented as a double) nearest x in the  direction  of  the
       current rounding mode. The current rounding mode is implementation-defined.

       If  the current rounding mode rounds toward negative infinity, then rint() shall be equivalent to floor().  If
       the current rounding mode rounds toward positive infinity, then rint() shall be equivalent to ceil().  If  the
       current  rounding mode rounds towards zero, then rint() shall be equivalent to trunc().  If the current round‐
       ing mode rounds towards nearest, then rint() differs from round() in that halfway cases are  rounded  to  even
       rather than away from zero.

       These  functions  differ  from the nearbyint(), nearbyintf(), and nearbyintl() functions only in that they may
       raise the inexact floating-point exception if the result differs in value from the argument.

       An application wishing  to  check  for  error  situations  should  set  errno  to  zero  and  call  feclearex‐
       cept(FE_ALL_EXCEPT) before calling these functions. On return, if errno is non-zero or fetestexcept(FE_INVALID
       | FE_DIVBYZERO | FE_OVERFLOW | FE_UNDERFLOW) is non-zero, an error has occurred.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion, these functions shall return the integer (represented as a double precision num‐
       ber) nearest x in the direction of the current rounding mode.  The result shall have the same sign as x.

       If x is NaN, a NaN shall be returned.

       If x is ±0 or ±Inf, x shall be returned.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The integral value returned by these functions need not be expressible  as  an  intmax_t.   The  return  value
       should be tested before assigning it to an integer type to avoid the undefined results of an integer overflow.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       abs(), ceil(), feclearexcept(), fetestexcept(), floor(), isnan(), nearbyint()

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.19, Treatment of Error Conditions for Mathematical
       Functions, <math.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                RINT(3P)
