RMDIR(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     RMDIR(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       rmdir — remove directories

SYNOPSIS
       rmdir [−p] dir...

DESCRIPTION
       The rmdir utility shall remove the directory entry specified by each dir operand.

       For  each  dir operand, the rmdir utility shall perform actions equivalent to the rmdir() function called with
       the dir operand as its only argument.

       Directories shall be processed in the order specified. If a directory and a subdirectory of that directory are
       specified in a single invocation of the rmdir utility, the application shall specify the  subdirectory  before
       the parent directory so that the parent directory will be empty when the rmdir utility tries to remove it.

OPTIONS
       The  rmdir  utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −p        Remove all directories in a pathname. For each dir operand:

                  1. The directory entry it names shall be removed.

                  2. If the dir operand includes more than one pathname component, effects equivalent to the  follow‐
                     ing command shall occur:

                         rmdir −p $(dirname dir)

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       dir       A pathname of an empty directory to be removed.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of rmdir:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Each directory entry specified by a dir operand was removed successfully.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The definition of an empty directory is one that contains, at most, directory entries for dot and dot-dot.

EXAMPLES
       If a directory a in the current directory is empty except it contains a directory b and a/b is empty except it
       contains a directory c:

           rmdir −p a/b/c

       removes all three directories.

RATIONALE
       On  historical System V systems, the −p option also caused a message to be written to the standard output. The
       message indicated whether the whole path was removed or whether part of the path remained for some reason. The
       STDERR section requires this diagnostic when the entire path specified by a dir operand is  not  removed,  but
       does not allow the status message reporting success to be written as a diagnostic.

       The  rmdir  utility  on System V also included a −s option that suppressed the informational message output by
       the −p option. This option has been omitted because the informational message is not specified by this  volume
       of POSIX.1‐2008.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       rm

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, remove(), rmdir(), unlink()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               RMDIR(1P)
