SEEKDIR(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   SEEKDIR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       seekdir — set the position of a directory stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <dirent.h>

       void seekdir(DIR *dirp, long loc);

DESCRIPTION
       The  seekdir()  function shall set the position of the next readdir() operation on the directory stream speci‐
       fied by dirp to the position specified by loc.  The value of loc should have been  returned  from  an  earlier
       call to telldir() using the same directory stream. The new position reverts to the one associated with the di‐
       rectory stream when telldir() was performed.

       If  the  value of loc was not obtained from an earlier call to telldir(), or if a call to rewinddir() occurred
       between the call to telldir() and the call to seekdir(), the results of subsequent calls to readdir() are  un‐
       specified.

RETURN VALUE
       The seekdir() function shall not return a value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  original  standard  developers  perceived  that  there  were restrictions on the use of the seekdir() and
       telldir() functions related to implementation details, and for that reason these functions need  not  be  sup‐
       ported on all POSIX-conforming systems. They are required on implementations supporting the XSI option.

       One  of  the  perceived  problems of implementation is that returning to a given point in a directory is quite
       difficult to describe formally, in spite of its intuitive appeal, when systems that use B-trees, hashing func‐
       tions, or other similar mechanisms to order their directories are considered. The definition of seekdir()  and
       telldir()  does not specify whether, when using these interfaces, a given directory entry will be seen at all,
       or more than once.

       On systems not supporting these functions, their capability can sometimes be accomplished by saving a filename
       found by readdir() and later using rewinddir() and a loop on readdir() to relocate the position from which the
       filename was saved.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fdopendir(), readdir(), telldir()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <dirent.h>, <sys_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             SEEKDIR(3P)
