SEMCTL(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SEMCTL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       semctl — XSI semaphore control operations

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/sem.h>

       int semctl(int semid, int semnum, int cmd, ...);

DESCRIPTION
       The  semctl()  function  operates  on XSI semaphores (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section
       4.16, Semaphore).  It is unspecified whether this function interoperates with the realtime interprocess commu‐
       nication facilities defined in Section 2.8, Realtime.

       The semctl() function provides a variety of semaphore control operations as specified by cmd.  The fourth  ar‐
       gument is optional and depends upon the operation requested. If required, it is of type union semun, which the
       application shall explicitly declare:

           union semun {
               int val;
               struct semid_ds *buf;
               unsigned short  *array;
           } arg;

       The  following  semaphore  control  operations  as specified by cmd are executed with respect to the semaphore
       specified by semid and semnum.  The level of permission required for each operation is shown  with  each  com‐
       mand;  see  Section 2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication.  The symbolic names for the values of cmd are defined
       in the <sys/sem.h> header:

       GETVAL      Return the value of semval; see <sys/sem.h>.  Requires read permission.

       SETVAL      Set the value of semval to arg.val, where arg is the value of the  fourth  argument  to  semctl().
                   When  this command is successfully executed, the semadj value corresponding to the specified sema‐
                   phore in all processes is cleared. Also, the sem_ctime timestamp shall be set to the current time,
                   as described in Section 2.7.1, IPC General Description.  Requires alter  permission;  see  Section
                   2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication.

       GETPID      Return the value of sempid.  Requires read permission.

       GETNCNT     Return the value of semncnt.  Requires read permission.

       GETZCNT     Return the value of semzcnt.  Requires read permission.

       The following values of cmd operate on each semval in the set of semaphores:

       GETALL      Return  the  value  of  semval  for  each  semaphore in the semaphore set and place into the array
                   pointed to by arg.array, where arg is the fourth argument to semctl().  Requires read permission.

       SETALL      Set the value of semval for each semaphore in the semaphore set according to the array pointed  to
                   by arg.array, where arg is the fourth argument to semctl().  When this command is successfully ex‐
                   ecuted,  the semadj values corresponding to each specified semaphore in all processes are cleared.
                   Also, the sem_ctime timestamp shall be set to the current time, as described in Section 2.7.1, IPC
                   General Description.  Requires alter permission.

       The following values of cmd are also available:

       IPC_STAT    Place the current value of each member of the semid_ds data structure associated with  semid  into
                   the  structure  pointed to by arg.buf, where arg is the fourth argument to semctl().  The contents
                   of this structure are defined in <sys/sem.h>.  Requires read permission.

       IPC_SET     Set the value of the following members of the semid_ds data structure associated with semid to the
                   corresponding value found in the structure pointed to by arg.buf, where arg is the fourth argument
                   to semctl():

                       sem_perm.uid
                       sem_perm.gid
                       sem_perm.mode

                   The mode bits specified in Section 2.7.1, IPC General Description are copied into the  correspond‐
                   ing  bits of the sem_perm.mode associated with semid.  The stored values of any other bits are un‐
                   specified. The sem_ctime timestamp shall be set to the  current  time,  as  described  in  Section
                   2.7.1, IPC General Description.

                   This  command can only be executed by a process that has an effective user ID equal to either that
                   of a process with appropriate privileges or to the value of sem_perm.cuid or sem_perm.uid  in  the
                   semid_ds data structure associated with semid.

       IPC_RMID    Remove  the  semaphore  identifier specified by semid from the system and destroy the set of sema‐
                   phores and semid_ds data structure associated with it. This command can  only  be  executed  by  a
                   process  that  has  an effective user ID equal to either that of a process with appropriate privi‐
                   leges or to the value of sem_perm.cuid or sem_perm.uid in the semid_ds data  structure  associated
                   with semid.

RETURN VALUE
       If successful, the value returned by semctl() depends on cmd as follows:

       GETVAL      The value of semval.

       GETPID      The value of sempid.

       GETNCNT     The value of semncnt.

       GETZCNT     The value of semzcnt.

       All others  0.

       Otherwise, semctl() shall return −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The semctl() function shall fail if:

       EACCES Operation permission is denied to the calling process; see Section 2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication.

       EINVAL The  value  of  semid  is  not  a  valid semaphore identifier, or the value of semnum is less than 0 or
              greater than or equal to sem_nsems, or the value of cmd is not a valid command.

       EPERM  The argument cmd is equal to IPC_RMID or IPC_SET and the effective user ID of the  calling  process  is
              not  equal  to  that  of  a  process  with  appropriate  privileges and it is not equal to the value of
              sem_perm.cuid or sem_perm.uid in the data structure associated with semid.

       ERANGE The argument cmd is equal to SETVAL or SETALL and the value to which semval is to  be  set  is  greater
              than the system-imposed maximum.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       Refer to semop().

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  fourth  parameter  in  the  SYNOPSIS section is now specified as "..." in order to avoid a clash with the
       ISO C standard when referring to the union semun (as defined in Issue 3) and for backwards-compatibility.

       The POSIX Realtime Extension defines alternative interfaces for interprocess communication. Application devel‐
       opers who need to use IPC should design their applications so that modules using the IPC routines described in
       Section 2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication can be easily modified to use the alternative interfaces.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication, Section 2.8, Realtime, semget(), semop(), sem_close(), sem_de‐
       stroy(), sem_getvalue(), sem_init(), sem_open(), sem_post(), sem_trywait(), sem_unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.16, Semaphore, <sys_sem.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SEMCTL(3P)
