SENDMSG(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   SENDMSG(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sendmsg — send a message on a socket using a message structure

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       ssize_t sendmsg(int socket, const struct msghdr *message, int flags);

DESCRIPTION
       The  sendmsg()  function  shall send a message through a connection-mode or connectionless-mode socket. If the
       socket is a connectionless-mode socket, the message shall be sent to the address specified  by  msghdr  if  no
       pre-specified peer address has been set. If a peer address has been pre-specified, either the message shall be
       sent to the address specified in msghdr (overriding the pre-specified peer address), or the function shall re‐
       turn −1 and set errno to [EISCONN].  If the socket is connection-mode, the destination address in msghdr shall
       be ignored.

       The sendmsg() function takes the following arguments:

       socket      Specifies the socket file descriptor.

       message     Points to a msghdr structure, containing both the destination address and the buffers for the out‐
                   going  message.  The  length and format of the address depend on the address family of the socket.
                   The msg_flags member is ignored.

       flags       Specifies the type of message transmission. The application may specify 0 or the following flag:

                   MSG_EOR       Terminates a record (if supported by the protocol).

                   MSG_OOB       Sends out-of-band data on sockets that support out-of-bound data.  The  significance
                                 and semantics of out-of-band data are protocol-specific.

                   MSG_NOSIGNAL  Requests  not  to send the SIGPIPE signal if an attempt to send is made on a stream-
                                 oriented socket that is no longer connected. The [EPIPE] error shall  still  be  re‐
                                 turned.

       The  msg_iov  and  msg_iovlen  fields  of message specify zero or more buffers containing the data to be sent.
       msg_iov points to an array of iovec structures; msg_iovlen shall be set to the dimension  of  this  array.  In
       each  iovec  structure,  the  iov_base  field specifies a storage area and the iov_len field gives its size in
       bytes. Some of these sizes can be zero. The data from each storage area indicated by msg_iov is sent in turn.

       Successful completion of a call to sendmsg() does not guarantee delivery of the message. A return value of  −1
       indicates only locally-detected errors.

       If  space is not available at the sending socket to hold the message to be transmitted and the socket file de‐
       scriptor does not have O_NONBLOCK set, the sendmsg() function shall block until space is available.  If  space
       is  not  available  at the sending socket to hold the message to be transmitted and the socket file descriptor
       does have O_NONBLOCK set, the sendmsg() function shall fail.

       If the socket protocol supports broadcast and the specified address is a broadcast address for the socket pro‐
       tocol, sendmsg() shall fail if the SO_BROADCAST option is not set for the socket.

       The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges to use the sendmsg() function.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, sendmsg() shall return the number of bytes sent. Otherwise, −1 shall  be  returned
       and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The sendmsg() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN or EWOULDBLOCK
              The socket's file descriptor is marked O_NONBLOCK and the requested operation would block.

       EAFNOSUPPORT
              Addresses in the specified address family cannot be used with this socket.

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ECONNRESET
              A connection was forcibly closed by a peer.

       EINTR  A signal interrupted sendmsg() before any data was transmitted.

       EINVAL The sum of the iov_len values overflows an ssize_t.

       EMSGSIZE
              The  message  is too large to be sent all at once (as the socket requires), or the msg_iovlen member of
              the msghdr structure pointed to by message is less than or equal to 0 or is greater than {IOV_MAX}.

       ENOTCONN
              The socket is connection-mode but is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The socket argument is associated with a socket that does not support one or more of the values set  in
              flags.

       EPIPE  The  socket  is  shut down for writing, or the socket is connection-mode and is no longer connected. In
              the latter case, and if the socket is of type SOCK_STREAM or SOCK_SEQPACKET and the  MSG_NOSIGNAL  flag
              is not set, the SIGPIPE signal is generated to the calling thread.

       If the address family of the socket is AF_UNIX, then sendmsg() shall fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the pathname in the socket address.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of the pathname does not name an existing file or the path name is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  of  the  path prefix of the pathname in the socket address names an existing file that is
              neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory, or the pathname in the socket address  contains
              at  least  one non-<slash> character and ends with one or more trailing <slash> characters and the last
              pathname component names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to  a  direc‐
              tory.

       The sendmsg() function may fail if:

       EACCES Search  permission is denied for a component of the path prefix; or write access to the named socket is
              denied.

       EDESTADDRREQ
              The socket is not connection-mode and does not have its peer address set, and  no  destination  address
              was specified.

       EHOSTUNREACH
              The  destination  host  cannot  be reached (probably because the host is down or a remote router cannot
              reach it).

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       EISCONN
              A destination address was specified and the socket is already connected.

       ENETDOWN
              The local network interface used to reach the destination is down.

       ENETUNREACH
              No route to the network is present.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.

       If the address family of the socket is AF_UNIX, then sendmsg() may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the pathname in the socket
              address.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       Done.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The select() and poll() functions can be used to determine when it is possible to send more data.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getsockopt(),  poll(),  pselect(),  recv(), recvfrom(), recvmsg(), send(), sendto(), setsockopt(), shutdown(),
       socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             SENDMSG(3P)
