SEND(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      SEND(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       send — send a message on a socket

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       ssize_t send(int socket, const void *buffer, size_t length, int flags);

DESCRIPTION
       The send() function shall initiate transmission of a message from the specified socket to its peer. The send()
       function  shall  send  a  message  only  when  the socket is connected. If the socket is a connectionless-mode
       socket, the message shall be sent to the pre-specified peer address.

       The send() function takes the following arguments:

       socket      Specifies the socket file descriptor.

       buffer      Points to the buffer containing the message to send.

       length      Specifies the length of the message in bytes.

       flags       Specifies the type of message transmission. Values of this argument are formed by logically OR'ing
                   zero or more of the following flags:

                   MSG_EOR       Terminates a record (if supported by the protocol).

                   MSG_OOB       Sends out-of-band data on sockets that support out-of-band communications. The  sig‐
                                 nificance and semantics of out-of-band data are protocol-specific.

                   MSG_NOSIGNAL  Requests  not  to send the SIGPIPE signal if an attempt to send is made on a stream-
                                 oriented socket that is no longer connected. The [EPIPE] error shall  still  be  re‐
                                 turned.

       The  length  of the message to be sent is specified by the length argument. If the message is too long to pass
       through the underlying protocol, send() shall fail and no data shall be transmitted.

       Successful completion of a call to send() does not guarantee delivery of the message. A return value of −1 in‐
       dicates only locally-detected errors.

       If space is not available at the sending socket to hold the message to be transmitted, and the socket file de‐
       scriptor does not have O_NONBLOCK set, send() shall block until space is available. If space is not  available
       at  the  sending socket to hold the message to be transmitted, and the socket file descriptor does have O_NON‐
       BLOCK set, send() shall fail. The select() and poll() functions can be used to determine when it  is  possible
       to send more data.

       The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges to use the send() function.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, send() shall return the number of bytes sent. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and
       errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The send() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN or EWOULDBLOCK
              The socket's file descriptor is marked O_NONBLOCK and the requested operation would block.

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ECONNRESET
              A connection was forcibly closed by a peer.

       EDESTADDRREQ
              The socket is not connection-mode and no peer address is set.

       EINTR  A signal interrupted send() before any data was transmitted.

       EMSGSIZE
              The message is too large to be sent all at once, as the socket requires.

       ENOTCONN
              The socket is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The socket argument is associated with a socket that does not support one or more of the values set  in
              flags.

       EPIPE  The  socket  is  shut down for writing, or the socket is connection-mode and is no longer connected. In
              the latter case, and if the socket is of type SOCK_STREAM or SOCK_SEQPACKET and the  MSG_NOSIGNAL  flag
              is not set, the SIGPIPE signal is generated to the calling thread.

       The send() function may fail if:

       EACCES The calling process does not have appropriate privileges.

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       ENETDOWN
              The local network interface used to reach the destination is down.

       ENETUNREACH
              No route to the network is present.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If the socket argument refers to a connection-mode socket, the send() function is equivalent to sendto() (with
       any  value for the dest_addr and dest_len arguments, as they are ignored in this case). If the socket argument
       refers to a socket and the flags argument is 0, the send() function is equivalent to write().

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       connect(), getsockopt(), poll(), pselect(), recv(), recvfrom(), recvmsg(), sendmsg(), sendto(),  setsockopt(),
       shutdown(), socket(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                SEND(3P)
