SENDTO(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SENDTO(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sendto — send a message on a socket

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       ssize_t sendto(int socket, const void *message, size_t length,
           int flags, const struct sockaddr *dest_addr,
           socklen_t dest_len);

DESCRIPTION
       The sendto() function shall send a message through a connection-mode or connectionless-mode socket.

       If the socket is a connectionless-mode socket, the message shall be sent to the address specified by dest_addr
       if  no  pre-specified  peer address has been set. If a peer address has been pre-specified, either the message
       shall be sent to the address specified by dest_addr (overriding the pre-specified peer address), or the  func‐
       tion shall return −1 and set errno to [EISCONN].

       If the socket is connection-mode, dest_addr shall be ignored.

       The sendto() function takes the following arguments:

       socket      Specifies the socket file descriptor.

       message     Points to a buffer containing the message to be sent.

       length      Specifies the size of the message in bytes.

       flags       Specifies the type of message transmission. Values of this argument are formed by logically OR'ing
                   zero or more of the following flags:

                   MSG_EOR       Terminates a record (if supported by the protocol).

                   MSG_OOB       Sends  out-of-band  data  on sockets that support out-of-band data. The significance
                                 and semantics of out-of-band data are protocol-specific.

                   MSG_NOSIGNAL  Requests not to send the SIGPIPE signal if an attempt to send is made on  a  stream-
                                 oriented  socket  that  is no longer connected. The [EPIPE] error shall still be re‐
                                 turned.

       dest_addr   Points to a sockaddr structure containing the destination address. The length and  format  of  the
                   address depend on the address family of the socket.

       dest_len    Specifies the length of the sockaddr structure pointed to by the dest_addr argument.

       If the socket protocol supports broadcast and the specified address is a broadcast address for the socket pro‐
       tocol, sendto() shall fail if the SO_BROADCAST option is not set for the socket.

       The dest_addr argument specifies the address of the target.

       The length argument specifies the length of the message.

       Successful  completion  of a call to sendto() does not guarantee delivery of the message. A return value of −1
       indicates only locally-detected errors.

       If space is not available at the sending socket to hold the message to be transmitted and the socket file  de‐
       scriptor  does  not have O_NONBLOCK set, sendto() shall block until space is available. If space is not avail‐
       able at the sending socket to hold the message to be transmitted and the  socket  file  descriptor  does  have
       O_NONBLOCK set, sendto() shall fail.

       The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges to use the sendto() function.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  sendto() shall return the number of bytes sent. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned
       and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The sendto() function shall fail if:

       EAFNOSUPPORT
              Addresses in the specified address family cannot be used with this socket.

       EAGAIN or EWOULDBLOCK
              The socket's file descriptor is marked O_NONBLOCK and the requested operation would block.

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ECONNRESET
              A connection was forcibly closed by a peer.

       EINTR  A signal interrupted sendto() before any data was transmitted.

       EMSGSIZE
              The message is too large to be sent all at once, as the socket requires.

       ENOTCONN
              The socket is connection-mode but is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The socket argument is associated with a socket that does not support one or more of the values set  in
              flags.

       EPIPE  The  socket  is  shut down for writing, or the socket is connection-mode and is no longer connected. In
              the latter case, and if the socket is of type SOCK_STREAM or SOCK_SEQPACKET and the  MSG_NOSIGNAL  flag
              is not set, the SIGPIPE signal is generated to the calling thread.

       If the address family of the socket is AF_UNIX, then sendto() shall fail if:

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the pathname in the socket address.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of the pathname does not name an existing file or the pathname is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  of  the  path prefix of the pathname in the socket address names an existing file that is
              neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory, or the pathname in the socket address  contains
              at  least  one non-<slash> character and ends with one or more trailing <slash> characters and the last
              pathname component names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to  a  direc‐
              tory.

       The sendto() function may fail if:

       EACCES Search  permission is denied for a component of the path prefix; or write access to the named socket is
              denied.

       EDESTADDRREQ
              The socket is not connection-mode and does not have its peer address set, and  no  destination  address
              was specified.

       EHOSTUNREACH
              The  destination  host  cannot  be reached (probably because the host is down or a remote router cannot
              reach it).

       EINVAL The dest_len argument is not a valid length for the address family.

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.

       EISCONN
              A destination address was specified and the socket is already connected.

       ENETDOWN
              The local network interface used to reach the destination is down.

       ENETUNREACH
              No route to the network is present.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.

       If the address family of the socket is AF_UNIX, then sendto() may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the pathname in the socket
              address.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The select() and poll() functions can be used to determine when it is possible to send more data.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getsockopt(),  poll(),  pselect(), recv(), recvfrom(), recvmsg(), send(), sendmsg(), setsockopt(), shutdown(),
       socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SENDTO(3P)
