SET(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       SET(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       set — set or unset options and positional parameters

SYNOPSIS
       set [−abCefhmnuvx] [−o option] [argument...]

       set [+abCefhmnuvx] [+o option] [argument...]

       set −− [argument...]

       set −o

       set +o

DESCRIPTION
       If  no  options or arguments are specified, set shall write the names and values of all shell variables in the
       collation sequence of the current locale. Each name shall start on a separate line, using the format:

           "%s=%s\n", <name>, <value>

       The value string shall be written with appropriate quoting; see the description of shell  quoting  in  Section
       2.2,  Quoting.   The output shall be suitable for reinput to the shell, setting or resetting, as far as possi‐
       ble, the variables that are currently set; read-only variables cannot be reset.

       When options are specified, they shall set or unset attributes of the shell, as described  below.  When  argu‐
       ments  are  specified, they cause positional parameters to be set or unset, as described below. Setting or un‐
       setting attributes and positional parameters are not necessarily related actions, but they can be combined  in
       a single invocation of set.

       The set special built-in shall support the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syn‐
       tax Guidelines except that options can be specified with either a leading <hyphen> (meaning enable the option)
       or <plus-sign> (meaning disable it) unless otherwise specified.

       Implementations  shall support the options in the following list in both their <hyphen> and <plus-sign> forms.
       These options can also be specified as options to sh.

       −a    When this option is on, the export attribute shall be set for each variable to which  an  assignment  is
             performed;  see  the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.22, Variable Assignment.  If the
             assignment precedes a utility name in a command, the export attribute shall not persist in  the  current
             execution  environment after the utility completes, with the exception that preceding one of the special
             built-in utilities causes the export attribute to persist after the built-in has completed. If  the  as‐
             signment  does not precede a utility name in the command, or if the assignment is a result of the opera‐
             tion of the getopts or read utilities, the export attribute shall persist until the variable is unset.

       −b    This option shall be supported if the implementation supports the User Portability Utilities option.  It
             shall  cause  the  shell  to notify the user asynchronously of background job completions. The following
             message is written to standard error:

                 "[%d]%c %s%s\n", <job-number>, <current>, <status>, <job-name>

             where the fields shall be as follows:

             <current>   The character '+' identifies the job that would be used as a default for the fg or bg utili‐
                         ties; this job can also be specified using the job_id "%+" or "%%".  The character '−' iden‐
                         tifies the job that would become the default if the current default job were to  exit;  this
                         job  can  also be specified using the job_id "%−".  For other jobs, this field is a <space>.
                         At most one job can be identified with '+' and at most one job can be identified  with  '−'.
                         If  there  is any suspended job, then the current job shall be a suspended job. If there are
                         at least two suspended jobs, then the previous job also shall be a suspended job.

             <job-number>
                         A number that can be used to identify the process group to the wait, fg, bg, and kill utili‐
                         ties. Using these utilities, the job can be identified by prefixing the job number with '%'.

             <status>    Unspecified.

             <job-name>  Unspecified.

             When the shell notifies the user a job has been completed, it may remove the job's process ID  from  the
             list  of  those  known in the current shell execution environment; see Section 2.9.3.1, Examples.  Asyn‐
             chronous notification shall not be enabled by default.

       −C    (Uppercase C.) Prevent existing files from being overwritten by the  shell's  '>'  redirection  operator
             (see Section 2.7.2, Redirecting Output); the ">|" redirection operator shall override this noclobber op‐
             tion for an individual file.

       −e    When  this  option is on, when any command fails (for any of the reasons listed in Section 2.8.1, Conse‐
             quences of Shell Errors or by returning an exit status greater than zero), the shell  immediately  shall
             exit with the following exceptions:

              1. The failure of any individual command in a multi-command pipeline shall not cause the shell to exit.
                 Only the failure of the pipeline itself shall be considered.

              2. The  −e setting shall be ignored when executing the compound list following the while, until, if, or
                 elif reserved word, a pipeline beginning with the !  reserved word, or any command of an AND-OR list
                 other than the last.

              3. If the exit status of a compound command other than a subshell command was the result of  a  failure
                 while −e was being ignored, then −e shall not apply to this command.

             This requirement applies to the shell environment and each subshell environment separately. For example,
             in:

                 set -e; (false; echo one) | cat; echo two

             the  false command causes the subshell to exit without executing echo one; however, echo two is executed
             because the exit status of the pipeline (false; echo one) | cat is zero.

       −f    The shell shall disable pathname expansion.

       −h    Locate and remember utilities invoked by functions as those functions are  defined  (the  utilities  are
             normally located when the function is executed).

       −m    This option shall be supported if the implementation supports the User Portability Utilities option. All
             jobs  shall  be run in their own process groups. Immediately before the shell issues a prompt after com‐
             pletion of the background job, a message reporting the exit status of the background job shall be  writ‐
             ten  to  standard error. If a foreground job stops, the shell shall write a message to standard error to
             that effect, formatted as described by the jobs utility. In addition, if a job changes status other than
             exiting (for example, if it stops for input or output or is stopped by  a  SIGSTOP  signal),  the  shell
             shall  write  a  similar message immediately prior to writing the next prompt. This option is enabled by
             default for interactive shells.

       −n    The shell shall read commands but does not execute them; this can be used to check for shell script syn‐
             tax errors. An interactive shell may ignore this option.

       −o    Write the current settings of the options to standard output in an unspecified format.

       +o    Write the current option settings to standard output in a format that is suitable  for  reinput  to  the
             shell as commands that achieve the same options settings.

       −o option
             This option is supported if the system supports the User Portability Utilities option. It shall set var‐
             ious  options,  many  of which shall be equivalent to the single option letters. The following values of
             option shall be supported:

             allexport Equivalent to −a.

             errexit   Equivalent to −e.

             ignoreeof Prevent an interactive shell from exiting on end-of-file. This setting prevents accidental lo‐
                       gouts when <control>‐D is entered. A user shall  explicitly  exit  to  leave  the  interactive
                       shell.

             monitor   Equivalent to −m.  This option is supported if the system supports the User Portability Utili‐
                       ties option.

             noclobber Equivalent to −C (uppercase C).

             noglob    Equivalent to −f.

             noexec    Equivalent to −n.

             nolog     Prevent the entry of function definitions into the command history; see Command History List.

             notify    Equivalent to −b.

             nounset   Equivalent to −u.

             verbose   Equivalent to −v.

             vi        Allow  shell command line editing using the built-in vi editor. Enabling vi mode shall disable
                       any other command line editing mode provided as an implementation extension.

                       It need not be possible to set vi mode on for certain block-mode terminals.

             xtrace    Equivalent to −x.

       −u    When the shell tries to expand an unset parameter other than the '@'  and  '*'  special  parameters,  it
             shall  write a message to standard error and shall not execute the command containing the expansion, but
             for the purposes of setting the '?'  special parameter and the exit status  of  the  shell  the  command
             shall  be  treated as having been executed and returned an exit status of between 1 and 125 inclusive. A
             non-interactive shell shall immediately exit. An interactive shell shall not exit.

       −v    The shell shall write its input to standard error as it is read.

       −x    The shell shall write to standard error a trace for each command after it expands the command and before
             it executes it. It is unspecified whether the command that turns tracing off is traced.

       The default for all these options shall be off (unset) unless stated otherwise in the description of  the  op‐
       tion or unless the shell was invoked with them on; see sh.

       The  remaining  arguments  shall  be assigned in order to the positional parameters. The special parameter '#'
       shall be set to reflect the number of positional parameters. All positional parameters shall be  unset  before
       any new values are assigned.

       If the first argument is '−', the results are unspecified.

       The  special  argument "−−" immediately following the set command name can be used to delimit the arguments if
       the first argument begins with '+' or '−', or to prevent inadvertent listing of all shell variables when there
       are no arguments. The command set −− without argument shall unset all positional parameters and set  the  spe‐
       cial parameter '#' to zero.

OPTIONS
       See the DESCRIPTION.

OPERANDS
       See the DESCRIPTION.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       None.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       See the DESCRIPTION.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       Zero.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Application writers should avoid relying on set −e within functions. For example, in the following script:

           set -e
           start() {
               some_server
               echo some_server started successfully
           }
           start || echo >&2 some_server failed

       the  −e setting is ignored within the function body (because the function is a command in an AND-OR list other
       than the last). Therefore, if some_server fails, the function carries on to  echo  "some_serverstartedsuccess‐
       fully", and the exit status of the function is zero (which means "some_serverfailed" is not output).

EXAMPLES
       Write out all variables and their values:

           set

       Set $1, $2, and $3 and set "$#" to 3:

           set c a b

       Turn on the −x and −v options:

           set −xv

       Unset all positional parameters:

           set −−

       Set $1 to the value of x, even if it begins with '−' or '+':

           set −− "$x"

       Set the positional parameters to the expansion of x, even if x expands with a leading '−' or '+':

           set −− $x

RATIONALE
       The set −− form is listed specifically in the SYNOPSIS even though this usage is implied by the Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.  The explanation of this feature removes any ambiguity about whether the set −− form might be mis‐
       interpreted as being equivalent to set without any options or arguments. The functionality of  this  form  has
       been adopted from the KornShell. In System V, set −− only unsets parameters if there is at least one argument;
       the  only way to unset all parameters is to use shift.  Using the KornShell version should not affect System V
       scripts because there should be no reason to issue it without arguments deliberately; if it  were  issued  as,
       for example:

           set −− "$@"

       and there were in fact no arguments resulting from "$@", unsetting the parameters would have no result.

       The  set  + form in early proposals was omitted as being an unnecessary duplication of set alone and not wide‐
       spread historical practice.

       The noclobber option was changed to allow set −C as well as the set −o  noclobber  option.  The  single-letter
       version was added so that the historical "$−" paradigm would not be broken; see Section 2.5.2, Special Parame‐
       ters.

       The description of the −e option is intended to match the behavior of the 1988 version of the KornShell.

       The −h flag is related to command name hashing. See hash.

       The following set flags were omitted intentionally with the following rationale:

       −k    The  −k  flag was originally added by the author of the Bourne shell to make it easier for users of pre-
             release versions of the shell. In early versions of the Bourne shell the construct set name=value had to
             be used to assign values to shell variables. The problem with −k is that the behavior  affects  parsing,
             virtually  precluding  writing any compilers. To explain the behavior of −k, it is necessary to describe
             the parsing algorithm, which is implementation-defined. For example:

                 set −k; echo name=value

             and:

                 set −k
                 echo name=value

             behave differently. The interaction with functions is even more complex. What is more, the  −k  flag  is
             never needed, since the command line could have been reordered.

       −t    The  −t  flag is hard to specify and almost never used. The only known use could be done with here-docu‐
             ments. Moreover, the behavior with ksh and sh differs. The reference page says that it exits after read‐
             ing and executing one command. What is one command? If the input is date;date,  sh  executes  both  date
             commands while ksh does only the first.

       Consideration  was given to rewriting set to simplify its confusing syntax. A specific suggestion was that the
       unset utility should be used to unset options instead of using the non-getopt()-able +option syntax.  However,
       the  conclusion  was reached that the historical practice of using +option was satisfactory and that there was
       no compelling reason to modify such widespread historical practice.

       The −o option was adopted from the KornShell to address user needs. In addition to its generally friendly  in‐
       terface,  −o  is  needed  to provide the vi command line editing mode, for which historical practice yields no
       single-letter option name. (Although it might have been possible to invent such a letter,  it  was  recognized
       that other editing modes would be developed and −o provides ample name space for describing such extensions.)

       Historical  implementations  are inconsistent in the format used for −o option status reporting. The +o format
       without an option-argument was added to allow portable access to the options that can be saved and then  later
       restored using, for instance, a dot script.

       Historically, sh did trace the command set +x, but ksh did not.

       The  ignoreeof  setting  prevents accidental logouts when the end-of-file character (typically <control>‐D) is
       entered. A user shall explicitly exit to leave the interactive shell.

       The set −m option was added to apply only to the UPE because it applies  primarily  to  interactive  use,  not
       shell script applications.

       The  ability to do asynchronous notification became available in the 1988 version of the KornShell. To have it
       occur, the user had to issue the command:

           trap "jobs −n" CLD

       The C shell provides two different levels of an asynchronous notification capability. The environment variable
       notify is analogous to what is done in set −b or set −o notify.  When set, it notifies the user immediately of
       background job completions. When unset, this capability is turned off.

       The other notification ability comes through the built-in utility notify.  The syntax is:

           notify [%job ... ]

       By issuing notify with no operands, it causes the C shell to notify the user asynchronously when the state  of
       the current job changes. If given operands, notify asynchronously informs the user of changes in the states of
       the specified jobs.

       To add asynchronous notification to the POSIX shell, neither the KornShell extensions to trap, nor the C shell
       notify environment variable seemed appropriate (notify is not a proper POSIX environment variable name).

       The set −b option was selected as a compromise.

       The  notify built-in was considered to have more functionality than was required for simple asynchronous noti‐
       fication.

       Historically, some shells applied the −u option to all parameters including $@ and $*.  The standard  develop‐
       ers  felt  that  this was a misfeature since it is normal and common for $@ and $* to be used in shell scripts
       regardless of whether they were passed any arguments. Treating these uses as an error when  no  arguments  are
       passed  reduces  the  value  of −u for its intended purpose of finding spelling mistakes in variable names and
       uses of unset positional parameters.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.14, Special Built-In Utilities, hash

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 4.22, Variable Assignment, Section 12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 SET(1P)
