SETBUF(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SETBUF(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setbuf — assign buffering to a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       void setbuf(FILE *restrict stream, char *restrict buf);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       Except that it returns no value, the function call:

           setbuf(stream, buf)

       shall be equivalent to:

           setvbuf(stream, buf, _IOFBF, BUFSIZ)

       if buf is not a null pointer, or to:

           setvbuf(stream, buf, _IONBF, BUFSIZ)

       if buf is a null pointer.

RETURN VALUE
       The setbuf() function shall not return a value.

ERRORS
       Although the setvbuf() interface may set errno in defined ways, the value of errno after a call to setbuf() is
       unspecified.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       A common source of error is allocating buffer space as an ``automatic'' variable in a  code  block,  and  then
       failing to close the stream in the same block.

       With  setbuf(),  allocating  a  buffer of BUFSIZ bytes does not necessarily imply that all of BUFSIZ bytes are
       used for the buffer area.

       Since errno is not required to be unchanged on success, in order to correctly detect and possibly recover from
       errors, applications should use setvbuf() instead of setbuf().

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fopen(), setvbuf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SETBUF(3P)
