SETENV(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SETENV(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setenv — add or change environment variable

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int setenv(const char *envname, const char *envval, int overwrite);

DESCRIPTION
       The  setenv()  function  shall update or add a variable in the environment of the calling process. The envname
       argument points to a string containing the name of an environment variable to be added or altered.  The  envi‐
       ronment  variable  shall be set to the value to which envval points. The function shall fail if envname points
       to a string which contains an '=' character. If the environment variable named by envname already  exists  and
       the value of overwrite is non-zero, the function shall return success and the environment shall be updated. If
       the  environment  variable  named  by  envname already exists and the value of overwrite is zero, the function
       shall return success and the environment shall remain unchanged.

       The setenv() function shall update the list of pointers to which environ points.

       The strings described by envname and envval are copied by this function.

       The setenv() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, zero shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned, errno set to indicate the
       error, and the environment shall be unchanged.

ERRORS
       The setenv() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The envname argument points to an empty string or points to a string containing an '=' character.

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available to add a variable or its value to the environment.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       See exec() for restrictions on changing the environment in multi-threaded applications.

RATIONALE
       Unanticipated results may occur if setenv() changes the external variable environ.  In particular, if the  op‐
       tional  envp  argument  to main() is present, it is not changed, and thus may point to an obsolete copy of the
       environment (as may any other copy of environ).  However, other than the aforementioned restriction, the stan‐
       dard developers intended that the traditional method of walking through the environment by way of the  environ
       pointer must be supported.

       It  was decided that setenv() should be required by this version because it addresses a piece of missing func‐
       tionality, and does not impose a significant burden on the implementor.

       There was considerable debate as to whether the System V putenv() function or the BSD setenv() function should
       be required as a mandatory function. The setenv() function was chosen because it permitted the  implementation
       of  the unsetenv() function to delete environmental variables, without specifying an additional interface. The
       putenv() function is available as part of the XSI option.

       The standard developers considered requiring that setenv() indicate an error when a call to it would result in
       exceeding {ARG_MAX}.  The requirement was rejected since the condition might be temporary, with  the  applica‐
       tion eventually reducing the environment size. The ultimate success or failure depends on the size at the time
       of a call to exec, which returns an indication of this error condition.

       See also the RATIONALE section in getenv().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, getenv(), putenv(), unsetenv()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SETENV(3P)
