SETEGID(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   SETEGID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setegid — set the effective group ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int setegid(gid_t gid);

DESCRIPTION
       If  gid is equal to the real group ID or the saved set-group-ID, or if the process has appropriate privileges,
       setegid() shall set the effective group ID of the calling process to gid; the real group ID, saved  set-group-
       ID, and any supplementary group IDs shall remain unchanged.

       The setegid() function shall not affect the supplementary group list in any way.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned; otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The setegid() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the gid argument is invalid and is not supported by the implementation.

       EPERM  The  process does not have appropriate privileges and gid does not match the real group ID or the saved
              set-group-ID.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Refer to the RATIONALE section in setuid().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, getegid(), geteuid(), getgid(), getuid(), seteuid(), setgid(), setregid(), setreuid(), setuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             SETEGID(3P)
