SETFSGID(2)                                   Linux Programmer's Manual                                   SETFSGID(2)

NAME
       setfsgid - set group identity used for filesystem checks

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/fsuid.h>

       int setfsgid(uid_t fsgid);

DESCRIPTION
       The  system  call setfsgid() changes the value of the caller's filesystem group ID—the group ID that the Linux
       kernel uses to check for all accesses to the filesystem.  Normally, the value of the filesystem group ID  will
       shadow the value of the effective group ID.  In fact, whenever the effective group ID is changed, the filesys‐
       tem group ID will also be changed to the new value of the effective group ID.

       Explicit  calls  to  setfsuid(2) and setfsgid() are usually used only by programs such as the Linux NFS server
       that need to change what user and group ID is used for file access without a corresponding change in the  real
       and  effective  user and group IDs.  A change in the normal user IDs for a program such as the NFS server is a
       security hole that can expose it to unwanted signals.  (But see below.)

       setfsgid() will succeed only if the caller is the superuser or if fsgid matches either the caller's real group
       ID, effective group ID, saved set-group-ID, or current the filesystem user ID.

RETURN VALUE
       On both success and failure, this call returns the previous filesystem group ID of the caller.

VERSIONS
       This system call is present in Linux since version 1.2.

CONFORMING TO
       setfsgid() is Linux-specific and should not be used in programs intended to be portable.

NOTES
       Note that at the time this system call was introduced, a process could send a signal to  a  process  with  the
       same  effective  user ID.  Today signal permission handling is slightly different.  See setfsuid(2) for a dis‐
       cussion of why the use of both setfsuid(2) and setfsgid() is nowadays unneeded.

       The original Linux setfsgid() system call supported only 16-bit group  IDs.   Subsequently,  Linux  2.4  added
       setfsgid32() supporting 32-bit IDs.  The glibc setfsgid() wrapper function transparently deals with the varia‐
       tion across kernel versions.

   C library/kernel differences
       In  glibc 2.15 and earlier, when the wrapper for this system call determines that the argument can't be passed
       to the kernel without integer truncation (because the kernel is old and does not support  32-bit  group  IDs),
       they will return -1 and set errno to EINVAL without attempting the system call.

BUGS
       No  error indications of any kind are returned to the caller, and the fact that both successful and unsuccess‐
       ful calls return the same value makes it impossible to  directly  determine  whether  the  call  succeeded  or
       failed.   Instead,  the  caller  must resort to looking at the return value from a further call such as setfs‐
       gid(-1) (which will always fail), in order to determine if a preceding call to setfsgid() changed the filesys‐
       tem group ID.  At the very least, EPERM should be returned when the call fails (because the caller  lacks  the
       CAP_SETGID capability).

SEE ALSO
       kill(2), setfsuid(2), capabilities(7), credentials(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is part of release 4.15 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, information
       about   reporting   bugs,   and    the    latest    version    of    this    page,    can    be    found    at
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.

Linux                                                 2017-09-15                                          SETFSGID(2)
