SETGID(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SETGID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setgid — set-group-ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int setgid(gid_t gid);

DESCRIPTION
       If  the  process has appropriate privileges, setgid() shall set the real group ID, effective group ID, and the
       saved set-group-ID of the calling process to gid.

       If the process does not have appropriate privileges, but gid is equal to the real group ID or the  saved  set-
       group-ID, setgid() shall set the effective group ID to gid; the real group ID and saved set-group-ID shall re‐
       main unchanged.

       The setgid() function shall not affect the supplementary group list in any way.

       Any supplementary group IDs of the calling process shall remain unchanged.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the er‐
       ror.

ERRORS
       The setgid() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the gid argument is invalid and is not supported by the implementation.

       EPERM  The process does not have appropriate privileges and gid does not match the real group ID or the  saved
              set-group-ID.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Refer to the RATIONALE section in setuid().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, getegid(), geteuid(), getgid(), getuid(), setegid(), seteuid(), setregid(), setreuid(), setuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SETGID(3P)
