SETJMP(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SETJMP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setjmp — set jump point for a non-local goto

SYNOPSIS
       #include <setjmp.h>

       int setjmp(jmp_buf env);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       A call to setjmp() shall save the calling environment in its env argument for later use by longjmp().

       It is unspecified whether setjmp() is a macro or a function. If a macro definition is suppressed in  order  to
       access  an  actual function, or a program defines an external identifier with the name setjmp, the behavior is
       undefined.

       An application shall ensure that an invocation of setjmp() appears in one of the following contexts only:

        *  The entire controlling expression of a selection or iteration statement

        *  One operand of a relational or equality operator with the other operand an integral  constant  expression,
           with  the  resulting expression being the entire controlling expression of a selection or iteration state‐
           ment

        *  The operand of a unary '!'  operator with the resulting expression being the entire controlling expression
           of a selection or iteration

        *  The entire expression of an expression statement (possibly cast to void)

       If the invocation appears in any other context, the behavior is undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       If the return is from a direct invocation, setjmp() shall return 0. If the return is from a call to longjmp(),
       setjmp() shall return a non-zero value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       In general, sigsetjmp() is more useful in dealing with errors and interrupts encountered in a  low-level  sub‐
       routine of a program.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       longjmp(), sigsetjmp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <setjmp.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SETJMP(3P)
