SETKEY(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SETKEY(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setkey — set encoding key (CRYPT)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void setkey(const char *key);

DESCRIPTION
       The  setkey()  function  provides  access  to  an  implementation-defined  encoding algorithm. The argument of
       setkey() is an array of length 64 bytes containing only the bytes with numerical value of 0  and  1.  If  this
       string  is divided into groups of 8, the low-order bit in each group is ignored; this gives a 56-bit key which
       is used by the algorithm. This is the key that shall be used with the  algorithm  to  encode  a  string  block
       passed to encrypt().

       The setkey() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful. An application wishing to check for
       error  situations should set errno to 0 before calling setkey().  If errno is non-zero on return, an error has
       occurred.

       The setkey() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       No values are returned.

ERRORS
       The setkey() function shall fail if:

       ENOSYS The functionality is not supported on this implementation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Decoding need not be implemented in all environments. This is related to government restrictions in some coun‐
       tries on encryption and decryption routines. Historical practice has been to ship a different version  of  the
       encryption  library  without the decryption feature in the routines supplied. Thus the exported version of en‐
       crypt() does encoding but not decoding.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       crypt(), encrypt()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SETKEY(3P)
