SETLOCALE(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 SETLOCALE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setlocale — set program locale

SYNOPSIS
       #include <locale.h>

       char *setlocale(int category, const char *locale);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The setlocale() function selects the appropriate piece of the global locale, as specified by the category  and
       locale  arguments,  and can be used to change or query the entire global locale or portions thereof. The value
       LC_ALL for category names the entire global locale; other values for category name only a part of  the  global
       locale:

       LC_COLLATE  Affects the behavior of regular expressions and the collation functions.

       LC_CTYPE    Affects  the behavior of regular expressions, character classification, character conversion func‐
                   tions, and wide-character functions.

       LC_MESSAGES Affects the affirmative and negative response expressions returned by nl_langinfo()  and  the  way
                   message  catalogs  are  located. It may also affect the behavior of functions that return or write
                   message strings.

       LC_MONETARY Affects the behavior of functions that handle monetary values.

       LC_NUMERIC  Affects the behavior of functions that handle numeric values.

       LC_TIME     Affects the behavior of the time conversion functions.

       The locale argument is a pointer to a character string containing the required setting of category.  The  con‐
       tents  of  this  string are implementation-defined. In addition, the following preset values of locale are de‐
       fined for all settings of category:

       "POSIX"     Specifies the minimal environment for C-language translation called the POSIX  locale.  The  POSIX
                   locale is the default global locale at entry to main().

       "C"         Equivalent to "POSIX".

       ""          Specifies  an implementation-defined native environment.  The determination of the name of the new
                   locale for the specified category depends on the value of the  associated  environment  variables,
                   LC_*  and  LANG; see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale and Chapter 8,
                   Environment Variables.

       A null pointer
                   Directs setlocale() to query the current global locale setting and return the name of  the  locale
                   if  category is not LC_ALL, or a string which encodes the locale name(s) for all of the individual
                   categories if category is LC_ALL.

       Setting all of the categories of the global locale is similar to successively setting each individual category
       of the global locale, except that all error checking is done before any actions are performed. To set all  the
       categories of the global locale, setlocale() can be invoked as:

           setlocale(LC_ALL, "");

       In this case, setlocale() shall first verify that the values of all the environment variables it needs accord‐
       ing  to the precedence rules (described in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment
       Variables) indicate supported locales. If the value of any of these environment variable searches yields a lo‐
       cale that is not supported (and non-null), setlocale() shall return a null pointer and the global locale shall
       not be changed. If all environment variables name supported locales, setlocale() shall proceed as  if  it  had
       been  called  for  each category, using the appropriate value from the associated environment variable or from
       the implementation-defined default if there is no such value.

       The global locale established using setlocale() shall only be used in threads for which no current locale  has
       been  set  using  uselocale()  or  whose  current  locale  has  been  set  to  the  global locale using uselo‐
       cale(LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE).

       The implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 calls setlocale().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, setlocale() shall return the string associated with the specified category for the
       new locale. Otherwise, setlocale() shall return a null pointer and the global locale shall not be changed.

       A null pointer for locale shall cause setlocale() to return a pointer to the string associated with the speci‐
       fied category for the current global locale. The global locale shall not be changed.

       The string returned by setlocale() is such that a subsequent call with that string and its associated category
       shall restore that part of the global locale. The application shall not modify the string returned.   The  re‐
       turned  string pointer might be invalidated or the string content might be overwritten by a subsequent call to
       setlocale().

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The following code illustrates how a program can initialize the international environment  for  one  language,
       while  selectively  modifying the global locale such that regular expressions and string operations can be ap‐
       plied to text recorded in a different language:

           setlocale(LC_ALL, "De");
           setlocale(LC_COLLATE, "Fr@dict");

       Internationalized programs can initiate language operation according to environment variable settings (see the
       Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables) by  calling  setlocale()
       as follows:

           setlocale(LC_ALL, "");

       Changing  the  setting  of  LC_MESSAGES  has  no  effect on catalogs that have already been opened by calls to
       catopen().

       In order to make use of different locale settings while multiple threads are running, applications should  use
       uselocale() in preference to setlocale().

RATIONALE
       References  to  the  international environment or locale in the following text relate to the global locale for
       the process. This can be overridden for individual threads using uselocale().

       The ISO C standard defines a collection of functions to support internationalization.  One of the most signif‐
       icant aspects of these functions is a facility to set and query the international environment.   The  interna‐
       tional environment is a repository of information that affects the behavior of certain functionality, namely:

        1. Character handling

        2. Collating

        3. Date/time formatting

        4. Numeric editing

        5. Monetary formatting

        6. Messaging

       The  setlocale()  function  provides the application developer with the ability to set all or portions, called
       categories, of the international environment.  These categories correspond to the areas of functionality  men‐
       tioned above. The syntax for setlocale() is as follows:

           char *setlocale(int category, const char *locale);

       where category is the name of one of following categories, namely:

              LC_COLLATE LC_CTYPE LC_MESSAGES LC_MONETARY LC_NUMERIC LC_TIME

       In addition, a special value called LC_ALL directs setlocale() to set all categories.

       There are two primary uses of setlocale():

        1. Querying the international environment to find out what it is set to

        2. Setting the international environment, or locale, to a specific value

       The  behavior  of setlocale() in these two areas is described below. Since it is difficult to describe the be‐
       havior in words, examples are used to illustrate the behavior of specific uses.

       To query the international environment, setlocale() is invoked with a specific category and the  null  pointer
       as  the  locale. The null pointer is a special directive to setlocale() that tells it to query rather than set
       the international environment.  The following syntax is used to query the name of the  international  environ‐
       ment:

           setlocale({LC_ALL, LC_COLLATE, LC_CTYPE, LC_MESSAGES, LC_MONETARY, \
               LC_NUMERIC, LC_TIME},(char *) NULL);

       The  setlocale() function shall return the string corresponding to the current international environment. This
       value may be used by a subsequent call to setlocale() to reset the international environment  to  this  value.
       However,  it  should  be noted that the return value from setlocale() may be a pointer to a static area within
       the function and is not guaranteed to remain unchanged (that is, it may be modified by a  subsequent  call  to
       setlocale()).   Therefore,  if the purpose of calling setlocale() is to save the value of the current interna‐
       tional environment so it can be changed and reset later, the return value should be copied to an array of char
       in the calling program.

       There are three ways to set the international environment with setlocale():

       setlocale(category, string)
             This usage sets a specific category in the international environment to a specific  value  corresponding
             to the value of the string.  A specific example is provided below:

                 setlocale(LC_ALL, "fr_FR.ISO-8859-1");

             In  this example, all categories of the international environment are set to the locale corresponding to
             the  string  "fr_FR.ISO-8859-1",  or  to  the  French  language  as   spoken   in   France   using   the
             ISO/IEC 8859‐1:1998 standard codeset.

             If the string does not correspond to a valid locale, setlocale() shall return a null pointer and the in‐
             ternational  environment is not changed. Otherwise, setlocale() shall return the name of the locale just
             set.

       setlocale(category, "C")
             The ISO C standard states that one locale must exist on all conforming implementations. The name of  the
             locale  is  C and corresponds to a minimal international environment needed to support the C programming
             language.

       setlocale(category, "")
             This sets a specific category to an implementation-defined default.  This corresponds to  the  value  of
             the environment variables.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       catopen(), exec, fprintf(), fscanf(), isalnum(), isalpha(), isblank(), iscntrl(), isdigit(), isgraph(), is‐
       lower(), isprint(), ispunct(), isspace(), isupper(), iswalnum(), iswalpha(), iswblank(), iswcntrl(), iswc‐
       type(), iswdigit(), iswgraph(), iswlower(), iswprint(), iswpunct(), iswspace(), iswupper(), iswxdigit(),
       isxdigit(), localeconv(), mblen(), mbstowcs(), mbtowc(), nl_langinfo(), perror(), psiginfo(), setlocale(),
       strcoll(), strerror(), strfmon(), strsignal(), strtod(), strxfrm(), tolower(), toupper(), towlower(), towup‐
       per(), uselocale(), wcscoll(), wcstod(), wcstombs(), wcsxfrm(), wctomb()

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008,  Chapter 7, Locale, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, <lang‐
       info.h>, <locale.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           SETLOCALE(3P)
