SETPGID(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   SETPGID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setpgid — set process group ID for job control

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int setpgid(pid_t pid, pid_t pgid);

DESCRIPTION
       The  setpgid()  function  shall either join an existing process group or create a new process group within the
       session of the calling process.

       The process group ID of a session leader shall not change.

       Upon successful completion, the process group ID of the process with a process ID that matches  pid  shall  be
       set to pgid.

       As  a  special case, if pid is 0, the process ID of the calling process shall be used. Also, if pgid is 0, the
       process ID of the indicated process shall be used.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, setpgid() shall return 0; otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno shall  be  set
       to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The setpgid() function shall fail if:

       EACCES The  value of the pid argument matches the process ID of a child process of the calling process and the
              child process has successfully executed one of the exec functions.

       EINVAL The value of the pgid argument is less than 0, or is not a value supported by the implementation.

       EPERM  The process indicated by the pid argument is a session leader.

       EPERM  The value of the pid argument matches the process ID of a child process of the calling process and  the
              child process is not in the same session as the calling process.

       EPERM  The  value  of the pgid argument is valid but does not match the process ID of the process indicated by
              the pid argument and there is no process with a process group ID that matches the value of the pgid ar‐
              gument in the same session as the calling process.

       ESRCH  The value of the pid argument does not match the process ID of  the  calling  process  or  of  a  child
              process of the calling process.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The setpgid() function shall group processes together for the purpose of signaling, placement in foreground or
       background, and other job control actions.

       The setpgid() function is similar to the setpgrp() function of 4.2 BSD, except that 4.2 BSD allowed the speci‐
       fied  new process group to assume any value. This presents certain security problems and is more flexible than
       necessary to support job control.

       To provide tighter security, setpgid() only allows the calling process to join a process group already in  use
       inside its session or create a new process group whose process group ID was equal to its process ID.

       When  a  job  control shell spawns a new job, the processes in the job must be placed into a new process group
       via setpgid().  There are two timing constraints involved in this action:

        1. The new process must be placed in the new process group before the appropriate program is launched via one
           of the exec functions.

        2. The new process must be placed in the new process group before the shell can correctly send signals to the
           new process group.

       To address these constraints, the following actions are performed. The new processes call setpgid()  to  alter
       their  own  process  groups after fork() but before exec.  This satisfies the first constraint. Under 4.3 BSD,
       the second constraint is satisfied by the synchronization property of vfork(); that is, the shell is suspended
       until the child has completed the exec, thus ensuring that the child has completed the setpgid().  A new  ver‐
       sion  of  fork()  with this same synchronization property was considered, but it was decided instead to merely
       allow the parent shell process to adjust the process group of its child processes via setpgid().  Both  timing
       constraints  are  now  satisfied  by  having both the parent shell and the child attempt to adjust the process
       group of the child process; it does not matter which succeeds first.

       Since it would be confusing to an application to have its process group change after it began executing  (that
       is,  after exec), and because the child process would already have adjusted its process group before this, the
       [EACCES] error was added to disallow this.

       One non-obvious use of setpgid() is to allow a job control shell to return  itself  to  its  original  process
       group  (the  one  in effect when the job control shell was executed). A job control shell does this before re‐
       turning control back to its parent when it is terminating or suspending itself as a way of restoring  its  job
       control  ``state'' back to what its parent would expect. (Note that the original process group of the job con‐
       trol shell typically matches the process group of its parent, but this is not necessarily always the case.)

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, getpgrp(), setsid(), tcsetpgrp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             SETPGID(3P)
