SETPGRP(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   SETPGRP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setpgrp — set the process group ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t setpgrp(void);

DESCRIPTION
       If  the  calling  process  is not already a session leader, setpgrp() sets the process group ID of the calling
       process to the process ID of the calling process. If setpgrp() creates a new session, then the new session has
       no controlling terminal.

       The setpgrp() function has no effect when the calling process is a session leader.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon completion, setpgrp() shall return the process group ID.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       It is unspecified whether this function behaves as setpgid(0,0) or setsid() unless the process  is  already  a
       session leader. Therefore, applications are encouraged to use setpgid() or setsid() as appropriate.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The setpgrp() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       exec, fork(), getpid(), getsid(), kill(), setpgid(), setsid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             SETPGRP(3P)
