SETREGID(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  SETREGID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setregid — set real and effective group IDs

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int setregid(gid_t rgid, gid_t egid);

DESCRIPTION
       The setregid() function shall set the real and effective group IDs of the calling process.

       If  rgid  is  −1,  the  real group ID shall not be changed; if egid is −1, the effective group ID shall not be
       changed.

       The real and effective group IDs may be set to different values in the same call.

       Only a process with appropriate privileges can set the real group ID and the effective group ID to  any  valid
       value.

       A  non-privileged process can set either the real group ID to the saved set-group-ID from one of the exec fam‐
       ily of functions, or the effective group ID to the saved set-group-ID or the real group ID.

       If the real group ID is being set (rgid is not −1), or the effective group ID is being  set  to  a  value  not
       equal  to  the real group ID, then the saved set-group-ID of the current process shall be set equal to the new
       effective group ID.

       Any supplementary group IDs of the calling process remain unchanged.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error, and neither of the group IDs are changed.

ERRORS
       The setregid() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the rgid or egid argument is invalid or out-of-range.

       EPERM  The process does not have appropriate privileges and a change other than changing the real group ID  to
              the saved set-group-ID, or changing the effective group ID to the real group ID or the saved set-group-
              ID, was requested.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If a non-privileged set-group-ID process sets its effective group ID to its real group ID, it can only set its
       effective  group ID back to the previous value if rgid was −1 in the setregid() call, since the saved-group-ID
       is not changed in that case. If rgid was equal to the real group ID in the setregid()  call,  then  the  saved
       set-group-ID will also have been changed to the real user ID.

RATIONALE
       Earlier  versions  of  this standard did not specify whether the saved set-group-ID was affected by setregid()
       calls. This version specifies common existing practice that constitutes an  important  security  feature.  The
       ability  to  set  both the effective group ID and saved set-group-ID to be the same as the real group ID means
       that any security weakness in code that is executed after that point cannot result in malicious code being ex‐
       ecuted with the previous effective group ID. Privileged applications could already do  this  using  just  set‐
       gid(),  but  for  non-privileged applications the only standard method available is to use this feature of se‐
       tregid().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, getegid(), geteuid(), getgid(), getuid(), setegid(), seteuid(), setgid(), setreuid(), setuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            SETREGID(3P)
