SETREUID(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  SETREUID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setreuid — set real and effective user IDs

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int setreuid(uid_t ruid, uid_t euid);

DESCRIPTION
       The  setreuid() function shall set the real and effective user IDs of the current process to the values speci‐
       fied by the ruid and euid arguments. If ruid or euid is −1, the corresponding effective or real user ID of the
       current process shall be left unchanged.

       A process with appropriate privileges can set either ID to any value.  An unprivileged process  can  only  set
       the  effective  user  ID  if the euid argument is equal to either the real, effective, or saved user ID of the
       process.

       If the real user ID is being set (ruid is not −1), or the effective user ID is being set to a value not  equal
       to the real user ID, then the saved set-user-ID of the current process shall be set equal to the new effective
       user ID.

       It  is unspecified whether a process without appropriate privileges is permitted to change the real user ID to
       match the current effective user ID or saved set-user-ID of the process.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The setreuid() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the ruid or euid argument is invalid or out-of-range.

       EPERM  The current process does not have appropriate privileges, and either an attempt was made to change  the
              effective  user  ID  to  a value other than the real user ID or the saved set-user-ID or an attempt was
              made to change the real user ID to a value not permitted by the implementation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Setting the Effective User ID to the Real User ID
       The following example sets the effective user ID of the calling process to the real user  ID,  so  that  files
       created  later  will  be owned by the current user. It also sets the saved set-user-ID to the real user ID, so
       any future attempt to set the effective user ID back to its previous value will fail.

           #include <unistd.h>
           #include <sys/types.h>
           ...
           setreuid(getuid(), getuid());
           ...

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Earlier versions of this standard did not specify whether the saved set-user-ID  was  affected  by  setreuid()
       calls.  This  version  specifies  common existing practice that constitutes an important security feature. The
       ability to set both the effective user ID and saved set-user-ID to be the same as the real user ID means  that
       any security weakness in code that is executed after that point cannot result in malicious code being executed
       with  the  previous  effective user ID. Privileged applications could already do this using just setuid(), but
       for non-privileged applications the only standard method available is to use this feature of setreuid().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getegid(), geteuid(), getgid(), getuid(), setegid(), seteuid(), setgid(), setregid(), setuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            SETREUID(3P)
