SETSID(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SETSID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setsid — create session and set process group ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t setsid(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The  setsid()  function shall create a new session, if the calling process is not a process group leader. Upon
       return the calling process shall be the session leader of this new session, shall be the process group  leader
       of  a  new  process group, and shall have no controlling terminal. The process group ID of the calling process
       shall be set equal to the process ID of the calling process. The calling process shall be the only process  in
       the new process group and the only process in the new session.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  setsid()  shall  return  the  value  of the new process group ID of the calling
       process. Otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The setsid() function shall fail if:

       EPERM  The calling process is already a process group leader, or the process group ID of a process other  than
              the calling process matches the process ID of the calling process.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The setsid() function is similar to the setpgrp() function of System V.  System V, without job control, groups
       processes into process groups and creates new process groups via setpgrp(); only one process group may be part
       of a login session.

       Job  control  allows  multiple process groups within a login session. In order to limit job control actions so
       that they can only affect processes in the same login session, this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 adds the concept of
       a session that is created via setsid().  The setsid() function also creates the  initial  process  group  con‐
       tained in the session. Additional process groups can be created via the setpgid() function. A System V process
       group would correspond to a POSIX System Interfaces session containing a single POSIX process group. Note that
       this function requires that the calling process not be a process group leader. The usual way to ensure this is
       true  is  to  create a new process with fork() and have it call setsid().  The fork() function guarantees that
       the process ID of the new process does not match any existing process group ID.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getsid(), setpgid(), setpgrp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SETSID(3P)
