SETUID(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SETUID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setuid — set user ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int setuid(uid_t uid);

DESCRIPTION
       If  the  process  has  appropriate privileges, setuid() shall set the real user ID, effective user ID, and the
       saved set-user-ID of the calling process to uid.

       If the process does not have appropriate privileges, but uid is equal to the real user ID or  the  saved  set-
       user-ID,  setuid() shall set the effective user ID to uid; the real user ID and saved set-user-ID shall remain
       unchanged.

       The setuid() function shall not affect the supplementary group list in any way.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The setuid() function shall fail, return −1, and set errno to the corresponding value if one or  more  of  the
       following are true:

       EINVAL The value of the uid argument is invalid and not supported by the implementation.

       EPERM  The  process  does not have appropriate privileges and uid does not match the real user ID or the saved
              set-user-ID.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The various behaviors of the setuid() and setgid() functions when called by non-privileged  processes  reflect
       the  behavior  of different historical implementations. For portability, it is recommended that new non-privi‐
       leged applications use the seteuid() and setegid() functions instead.

       The saved set-user-ID capability allows a program to regain the effective user ID established at the last exec
       call. Similarly, the saved set-group-ID capability allows a program to regain the effective  group  ID  estab‐
       lished at the last exec call. These capabilities are derived from System V. Without them, a program might have
       to  run  as superuser in order to perform the same functions, because superuser can write on the user's files.
       This is a problem because such a program can write on any user's files, and so must be  carefully  written  to
       emulate  the  permissions  of the calling process properly. In System V, these capabilities have traditionally
       been implemented only via the setuid() and setgid() functions for non-privileged processes. The fact that  the
       behavior  of  those  functions  was  different  for  privileged  processes  made  them  difficult  to use. The
       POSIX.1‐1990 standard defined the setuid() function to behave  differently  for  privileged  and  unprivileged
       users.   When the caller had appropriate privileges, the function set the real user ID, effective user ID, and
       saved set-user ID of the calling process on implementations that supported it. When the caller  did  not  have
       appropriate  privileges, the function set only the effective user ID, subject to permission checks. The former
       use is generally needed for utilities like login and su, which are not conforming applications and  thus  out‐
       side  the scope of POSIX.1‐2008. These utilities wish to change the user ID irrevocably to a new value, gener‐
       ally that of an unprivileged user. The latter use is needed for conforming  applications  that  are  installed
       with the set-user-ID bit and need to perform operations using the real user ID.

       POSIX.1‐2008  augments  the latter functionality with a mandatory feature named _POSIX_SAVED_IDS. This feature
       permits a set-user-ID application to switch its effective user ID back and forth between  the  values  of  its
       exec-time  real  user ID and effective user ID. Unfortunately, the POSIX.1‐1990 standard did not permit a con‐
       forming application using this feature to work properly when it happened to be executed with  (implementation-
       defined) appropriate privileges. Furthermore, the application did not even have a means to tell whether it had
       this  privilege.  Since the saved set-user-ID feature is quite desirable for applications, as evidenced by the
       fact that NIST required it in FIPS 151‐2, it has been mandated by POSIX.1‐2008. However, there  are  implemen‐
       tors who have been reluctant to support it given the limitation described above.

       The  4.3BSD  system handles the problem by supporting separate functions: setuid() (which always sets both the
       real and effective user IDs, like setuid() in POSIX.1‐2008 for privileged users), and seteuid() (which  always
       sets  just  the effective user ID, like setuid() in POSIX.1‐2008 for non-privileged users). This separation of
       functionality into distinct functions seems desirable. 4.3BSD does not support the saved set-user-ID  feature.
       It supports similar functionality of switching the effective user ID back and forth via setreuid(), which per‐
       mits reversing the real and effective user IDs. This model seems less desirable than the saved set-user-ID be‐
       cause the real user ID changes as a side-effect. The current 4.4BSD includes saved effective IDs and uses them
       for  seteuid() and setegid() as described above. The setreuid() and setregid() functions will be deprecated or
       removed.

       The solution here is:

        *  Require that all implementations support the functionality of the saved set-user-ID, which is set  by  the
           exec functions and by privileged calls to setuid().

        *  Add the seteuid() and setegid() functions as portable alternatives to setuid() and setgid() for non-privi‐
           leged and privileged processes.

       Historical  systems  have provided two mechanisms for a set-user-ID process to change its effective user ID to
       be the same as its real user ID in such a way that it could return to the original effective user ID: the  use
       of  the  setuid()  function in the presence of a saved set-user-ID, or the use of the BSD setreuid() function,
       which was able to swap the real and effective user IDs. The changes included in  POSIX.1‐2008  provide  a  new
       mechanism  using seteuid() in conjunction with a saved set-user-ID. Thus, all implementations with the new se‐
       teuid() mechanism will have a saved set-user-ID for each process, and  most  of  the  behavior  controlled  by
       _POSIX_SAVED_IDS  has been changed to agree with the case where the option was defined. The kill() function is
       an exception. Implementors of the new seteuid() mechanism will generally be required to maintain compatibility
       with the older mechanisms previously supported by their systems. However, compatibility with this use  of  se‐
       treuid()  and  with the _POSIX_SAVED_IDS behavior of kill() is unfortunately complicated. If an implementation
       with a saved set-user-ID allows a process to use setreuid() to swap its real and effective user IDs, but  were
       to leave the saved set-user-ID unmodified, the process would then have an effective user ID equal to the orig‐
       inal  real  user  ID, and both real and saved set-user-ID would be equal to the original effective user ID. In
       that state, the real user would be unable to kill the process, even  though  the  effective  user  ID  of  the
       process  matches that of the real user, if the kill() behavior of _POSIX_SAVED_IDS was used. This is obviously
       not acceptable. The alternative choice, which is used in at least one implementation, is to change  the  saved
       set-user-ID to the effective user ID during most calls to setreuid().  The standard developers considered that
       alternative  to be less correct than the retention of the old behavior of kill() in such systems. Current con‐
       forming applications shall accommodate either behavior from kill(), and there appears to be no  strong  reason
       for kill() to check the saved set-user-ID rather than the effective user ID.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, getegid(), geteuid(), getgid(), getuid(), setegid(), seteuid(), setgid(), setregid(), setreuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SETUID(3P)
