SHMAT(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     SHMAT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       shmat — XSI shared memory attach operation

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/shm.h>

       void *shmat(int shmid, const void *shmaddr, int shmflg);

DESCRIPTION
       The  shmat()  function operates on XSI shared memory (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section
       3.342, Shared Memory Object).  It is unspecified whether this function interoperates with the realtime  inter‐
       process communication facilities defined in Section 2.8, Realtime.

       The shmat() function attaches the shared memory segment associated with the shared memory identifier specified
       by  shmid to the address space of the calling process. The segment is attached at the address specified by one
       of the following criteria:

        *  If shmaddr is a null pointer, the segment is attached at the first available address as  selected  by  the
           system.

        *  If shmaddr is not a null pointer and (shmflg &SHM_RND) is non-zero, the segment is attached at the address
           given by (shmaddr −((uintptr_t)shmaddr %SHMLBA)). The character '%' is the C-language remainder operator.

        *  If  shmaddr is not a null pointer and (shmflg &SHM_RND) is 0, the segment is attached at the address given
           by shmaddr.

        *  The segment is attached for reading if (shmflg &SHM_RDONLY) is non-zero and the calling process  has  read
           permission;  otherwise,  if  it is 0 and the calling process has read and write permission, the segment is
           attached for reading and writing.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, shmat() shall increment the value of shm_nattch in the data  structure  associated
       with the shared memory ID of the attached shared memory segment and return the segment's start address.  Also,
       the  shm_atime timestamp shall be set to the current time, as described in Section 2.7.1, IPC General Descrip‐
       tion.

       Otherwise, the shared memory segment shall not be attached, shmat() shall return −1, and errno shall be set to
       indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The shmat() function shall fail if:

       EACCES Operation permission is denied to the calling process; see Section 2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication.

       EINVAL The value of shmid is not a valid shared memory identifier, the shmaddr is not a null pointer, and  the
              value  of (shmaddr −((uintptr_t)shmaddr %SHMLBA)) is an illegal address for attaching shared memory; or
              the shmaddr is not a null pointer, (shmflg &SHM_RND) is 0, and the value of shmaddr is an  illegal  ad‐
              dress for attaching shared memory.

       EMFILE The  number  of  shared memory segments attached to the calling process would exceed the system-imposed
              limit.

       ENOMEM The available data space is not large enough to accommodate the shared memory segment.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The POSIX Realtime Extension defines alternative interfaces for interprocess communication. Application devel‐
       opers who need to use IPC should design their applications so that modules using the IPC routines described in
       Section 2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication can be easily modified to use the alternative interfaces.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication, Section 2.8, Realtime, exec, exit(), fork(),  shmctl(),  shmdt(),
       shmget(), shm_open(), shm_unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.342, Shared Memory Object, <sys_shm.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               SHMAT(3P)
