SHMDT(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     SHMDT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       shmdt — XSI shared memory detach operation

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/shm.h>

       int shmdt(const void *shmaddr);

DESCRIPTION
       The  shmdt()  function operates on XSI shared memory (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section
       3.342, Shared Memory Object).  It is unspecified whether this function interoperates with the realtime  inter‐
       process communication facilities defined in Section 2.8, Realtime.

       The  shmdt()  function detaches the shared memory segment located at the address specified by shmaddr from the
       address space of the calling process.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, shmdt() shall decrement the value of shm_nattch in the data  structure  associated
       with  the  shared  memory ID of the attached shared memory segment and return 0. Also, the shm_dtime timestamp
       shall be set to the current time, as described in Section 2.7.1, IPC General Description.

       Otherwise, the shared memory segment shall not be detached, shmdt() shall return −1, and errno shall be set to
       indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The shmdt() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of shmaddr is not the data segment start address of a shared memory segment.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The POSIX Realtime Extension defines alternative interfaces for interprocess communication. Application devel‐
       opers who need to use IPC should design their applications so that modules using the IPC routines described in
       Section 2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication can be easily modified to use the alternative interfaces.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.7, XSI Interprocess Communication, Section 2.8, Realtime, exec, exit(), fork(),  shmat(),  shmctl(),
       shmget(), shm_open(), shm_unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.342, Shared Memory Object, <sys_shm.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               SHMDT(3P)
