SHUTDOWN(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  SHUTDOWN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       shutdown — shut down socket send and receive operations

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int shutdown(int socket, int how);

DESCRIPTION
       The  shutdown() function shall cause all or part of a full-duplex connection on the socket associated with the
       file descriptor socket to be shut down.

       The shutdown() function takes the following arguments:

       socket      Specifies the file descriptor of the socket.

       how         Specifies the type of shutdown. The values are as follows:

                   SHUT_RD     Disables further receive operations.

                   SHUT_WR     Disables further send operations.

                   SHUT_RDWR   Disables further send and receive operations.

       The shutdown() function disables subsequent send and/or receive operations on a socket, depending on the value
       of the how argument.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, shutdown() shall return 0; otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to  indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       The shutdown() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL The how argument is invalid.

       ENOTCONN
              The socket is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       The shutdown() function may fail if:

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getsockopt(),  pselect(),  read(),  recv(),  recvfrom(),  recvmsg(), send(), sendto(), setsockopt(), socket(),
       write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            SHUTDOWN(3P)
