SIGACTION(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 SIGACTION(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigaction — examine and change a signal action

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigaction(int sig, const struct sigaction *restrict act,
           struct sigaction *restrict oact);

DESCRIPTION
       The sigaction() function allows the calling process to examine and/or specify the action to be associated with
       a specific signal. The argument sig specifies the signal; acceptable values are defined in <signal.h>.

       The  structure  sigaction,  used to describe an action to be taken, is defined in the <signal.h> header to in‐
       clude at least the following members:
                        ┌─────────────────┬───────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────┐
                        │   Member Type   │ Member Name   │             Description               │
                        ├─────────────────┼───────────────┼───────────────────────────────────────┤
                        │ void(*) (int)   │ sa_handler    │Pointer to a signal-catching function  │
                        │                 │               │or one of the macros SIG_IGN or        │
                        │                 │               │SIG_DFL.                               │
                        │ sigset_t        │ sa_mask       │Additional set of signals to be        │
                        │                 │               │blocked during execution of signal-    │
                        │                 │               │catching function.                     │
                        │ int             │ sa_flags      │Special flags to affect behavior of    │
                        │                 │               │signal.                                │
                        │ void(*) (int,   │ sa_sigaction  │Pointer to a signal-catching function. │
                        │   siginfo_t *,  │               │                                       │
                        │ void *)         │               │                                       │
                        └─────────────────┴───────────────┴───────────────────────────────────────┘

       The storage occupied by sa_handler and sa_sigaction may overlap, and a conforming application  shall  not  use
       both simultaneously.

       If  the  argument  act  is not a null pointer, it points to a structure specifying the action to be associated
       with the specified signal. If the argument oact is not a null pointer, the action previously  associated  with
       the  signal is stored in the location pointed to by the argument oact.  If the argument act is a null pointer,
       signal handling is unchanged; thus, the call can be used to enquire about the current handling of a given sig‐
       nal. The SIGKILL and SIGSTOP signals shall not be added to the signal mask using this mechanism; this restric‐
       tion shall be enforced by the system without causing an error to be indicated.

       If the SA_SIGINFO flag (see below) is cleared in the sa_flags field of the sigaction structure, the sa_handler
       field identifies the action to be associated with the specified signal.  If the SA_SIGINFO flag is set in  the
       sa_flags field, the sa_sigaction field specifies a signal-catching function.

       The sa_flags field can be used to modify the behavior of the specified signal.

       The following flags, defined in the <signal.h> header, can be set in sa_flags:

       SA_NOCLDSTOP  Do not generate SIGCHLD when children stop or stopped children continue.

                     If  sig is SIGCHLD and the SA_NOCLDSTOP flag is not set in sa_flags, and the implementation sup‐
                     ports the SIGCHLD signal, then a SIGCHLD signal shall be generated for the calling process when‐
                     ever any of its child processes stop and a SIGCHLD signal  may  be  generated  for  the  calling
                     process  whenever  any  of its stopped child processes are continued.  If sig is SIGCHLD and the
                     SA_NOCLDSTOP flag is set in sa_flags, then the implementation shall not generate a SIGCHLD  sig‐
                     nal in this way.

       SA_ONSTACK    If  set  and an alternate signal stack has been declared with sigaltstack(), the signal shall be
                     delivered to the calling process on that stack.  Otherwise, the signal shall be delivered on the
                     current stack.

       SA_RESETHAND  If set, the disposition of the signal shall be reset to SIG_DFL and the SA_SIGINFO flag shall be
                     cleared on entry to the signal handler.

                     Note:     SIGILL and SIGTRAP cannot be automatically reset when delivered; the  system  silently
                               enforces this restriction.

                     Otherwise, the disposition of the signal shall not be modified on entry to the signal handler.

                     In  addition,  if  this  flag is set, sigaction() may behave as if the SA_NODEFER flag were also
                     set.

       SA_RESTART    This flag affects the behavior of interruptible functions; that is, those specified to fail with
                     errno set to [EINTR].  If set, and a function specified as interruptible is interrupted by  this
                     signal,  the  function shall restart and shall not fail with [EINTR] unless otherwise specified.
                     If an interruptible function which uses a timeout is restarted, the duration of the timeout fol‐
                     lowing the restart is set to an unspecified value that does  not  exceed  the  original  timeout
                     value.  If  the  flag  is not set, interruptible functions interrupted by this signal shall fail
                     with errno set to [EINTR].

       SA_SIGINFO    If cleared and the signal is caught, the signal-catching function shall be entered as:

                         void func(int signo);

                     where signo is the only argument to the signal-catching function. In this case, the  application
                     shall  use  the  sa_handler  member to describe the signal-catching function and the application
                     shall not modify the sa_sigaction member.

                     If SA_SIGINFO is set and the signal is caught, the signal-catching function shall be entered as:

                         void func(int signo, siginfo_t *info, void *context);

                     where two additional arguments are passed to the signal-catching function. The  second  argument
                     shall  point  to an object of type siginfo_t explaining the reason why the signal was generated;
                     the third argument can be cast to a pointer to an object of type ucontext_t to refer to the  re‐
                     ceiving  thread's  context that was interrupted when the signal was delivered. In this case, the
                     application shall use the sa_sigaction member to describe the signal-catching function  and  the
                     application shall not modify the sa_handler member.

                     The si_signo member contains the system-generated signal number.

                     The  si_errno  member  may  contain implementation-defined additional error information; if non-
                     zero, it contains an error number identifying the condition that caused the signal to be  gener‐
                     ated.

                     The  si_code member contains a code identifying the cause of the signal, as described in Section
                     2.4.3, Signal Actions.

       SA_NOCLDWAIT  If set, and sig equals SIGCHLD, child processes of the calling processes  shall  not  be  trans‐
                     formed  into zombie processes when they terminate. If the calling process subsequently waits for
                     its children, and the process has no unwaited-for children that  were  transformed  into  zombie
                     processes,  it  shall block until all of its children terminate, and wait(), waitid(), and wait‐
                     pid() shall fail and set errno to [ECHILD].  Otherwise, terminating  child  processes  shall  be
                     transformed into zombie processes, unless SIGCHLD is set to SIG_IGN.

       SA_NODEFER    If  set  and  sig  is caught, sig shall not be added to the thread's signal mask on entry to the
                     signal handler unless it is included in sa_mask.  Otherwise, sig shall always be  added  to  the
                     thread's signal mask on entry to the signal handler.

       When  a  signal  is caught by a signal-catching function installed by sigaction(), a new signal mask is calcu‐
       lated and installed for the duration of the signal-catching function (or until a call to either  sigprocmask()
       or  sigsuspend() is made). This mask is formed by taking the union of the current signal mask and the value of
       the sa_mask for the signal being delivered, and unless SA_NODEFER or SA_RESETHAND is set, then  including  the
       signal  being  delivered.  If and when the user's signal handler returns normally, the original signal mask is
       restored.

       Once an action is installed for a specific signal, it shall remain installed until another action  is  explic‐
       itly  requested (by another call to sigaction()), until the SA_RESETHAND flag causes resetting of the handler,
       or until one of the exec functions is called.

       If the previous action for sig had been established by signal(), the values of  the  fields  returned  in  the
       structure  pointed  to by oact are unspecified, and in particular oact->sa_handler is not necessarily the same
       value passed to signal().  However, if a pointer to the same structure or a copy thereof is passed to a subse‐
       quent call to sigaction() via the act argument, handling of the signal shall be as if  the  original  call  to
       signal() were repeated.

       If sigaction() fails, no new signal handler is installed.

       It  is  unspecified  whether  an  attempt  to  set the action for a signal that cannot be caught or ignored to
       SIG_DFL is ignored or causes an error to be returned with errno set to [EINVAL].

       If SA_SIGINFO is not set in sa_flags, then the disposition of subsequent occurrences of sig when it is already
       pending is implementation-defined; the signal-catching function shall be invoked with a single  argument.   If
       SA_SIGINFO  is  set  in sa_flags, then subsequent occurrences of sig generated by sigqueue() or as a result of
       any signal-generating function that supports the specification of an application-defined value  (when  sig  is
       already pending) shall be queued in FIFO order until delivered or accepted; the signal-catching function shall
       be  invoked with three arguments. The application specified value is passed to the signal-catching function as
       the si_value member of the siginfo_t structure.

       The result of the use of sigaction() and a sigwait() function concurrently within a process on the same signal
       is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, sigaction() shall return 0; otherwise, −1 shall be returned, errno shall be set to
       indicate the error, and no new signal-catching function shall be installed.

ERRORS
       The sigaction() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The sig argument is not a valid signal number or an attempt is made to catch a signal  that  cannot  be
              caught or ignore a signal that cannot be ignored.

       ENOTSUP
              The SA_SIGINFO bit flag is set in the sa_flags field of the sigaction structure.

       The sigaction() function may fail if:

       EINVAL An  attempt  was  made  to  set the action to SIG_DFL for a signal that cannot be caught or ignored (or
              both).

       In addition, the sigaction() function may fail if the SA_SIGINFO flag is set in  the  sa_flags  field  of  the
       sigaction structure for a signal not in the range SIGRTMIN to SIGRTMAX.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Establishing a Signal Handler
       The following example demonstrates the use of sigaction() to establish a handler for the SIGINT signal.

           #include <signal.h>

           static void handler(int signum)
           {
               /* Take appropriate actions for signal delivery */
           }

           int main()
           {
               struct sigaction sa;

               sa.sa_handler = handler;
               sigemptyset(&sa.sa_mask);
               sa.sa_flags = SA_RESTART; /* Restart functions if
                                            interrupted by handler */
               if (sigaction(SIGINT, &sa, NULL) == −1)
                   /* Handle error */;

               /* Further code */
           }

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  sigaction()  function  supersedes the signal() function, and should be used in preference. In particular,
       sigaction() and signal() should not be used in the same process to control the same signal.  The  behavior  of
       async-signal-safe functions, as defined in their respective DESCRIPTION sections, is as specified by this vol‐
       ume of POSIX.1‐2008, regardless of invocation from a signal-catching function. This is the only intended mean‐
       ing  of  the  statement  that async-signal-safe functions may be used in signal-catching functions without re‐
       strictions. Applications must still consider all effects of such functions on such things as data  structures,
       files,  and process state. In particular, application developers need to consider the restrictions on interac‐
       tions when interrupting sleep() and interactions among multiple handles for a file description. The fact  that
       any  specific  function is listed as async-signal-safe does not necessarily mean that invocation of that func‐
       tion from a signal-catching function is recommended.

       In order to prevent errors arising from interrupting non-async-signal-safe function calls, applications should
       protect calls to these functions either by blocking the appropriate signals or through the use  of  some  pro‐
       grammatic  semaphore  (see  semget(),  sem_init(),  sem_open(),  and  so on). Note in particular that even the
       ``safe'' functions may modify errno; the signal-catching function, if not executing as an independent  thread,
       should  save  and  restore its value in order to avoid the possibility that delivery of a signal in between an
       error return from a function that sets errno and the subsequent examination of errno could result in the  sig‐
       nal-catching  function changing the value of errno.  Naturally, the same principles apply to the async-signal-
       safety of application routines and asynchronous data access. Note that longjmp() and siglongjmp() are  not  in
       the  list  of async-signal-safe functions. This is because the code executing after longjmp() and siglongjmp()
       can call any unsafe functions with the same danger as calling those unsafe functions directly from the  signal
       handler. Applications that use longjmp() and siglongjmp() from within signal handlers require rigorous protec‐
       tion  in  order  to be portable. Many of the other functions that are excluded from the list are traditionally
       implemented using either malloc() or free() functions or the standard I/O library, both of which traditionally
       use data structures in a non-async-signal-safe manner. Since any combination of different  functions  using  a
       common  data structure can cause async-signal-safety problems, this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not define the
       behavior when any unsafe function is called in a signal handler that interrupts an unsafe function.

       Usually, the signal is executed on the stack that was in effect before the signal was delivered. An  alternate
       stack may be specified to receive a subset of the signals being caught.

       When the signal handler returns, the receiving thread resumes execution at the point it was interrupted unless
       the  signal  handler makes other arrangements. If longjmp() or _longjmp() is used to leave the signal handler,
       then the signal mask must be explicitly restored.

       This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defines the third argument of a signal handling function when SA_SIGINFO is set as
       a void * instead of a ucontext_t *, but without requiring type checking. New  applications  should  explicitly
       cast the third argument of the signal handling function to ucontext_t *.

       The  BSD  optional four argument signal handling function is not supported by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008. The
       BSD declaration would be:

           void handler(int sig, int code, struct sigcontext *scp,
               char *addr);

       where sig is the signal number, code is additional information on certain signals, scp is  a  pointer  to  the
       sigcontext  structure,  and  addr is additional address information. Much the same information is available in
       the objects pointed to by the second argument of the signal handler specified when SA_SIGINFO is set.

       Since the sigaction() function is allowed but not required to set SA_NODEFER when  the  application  sets  the
       SA_RESETHAND  flag, applications which depend on the SA_RESETHAND functionality for the newly installed signal
       handler must always explicitly set SA_NODEFER when they set SA_RESETHAND in order to be portable.

       See also the rationale for Realtime Signal Generation and Delivery in the Rationale  (Informative)  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008, Section B.2.4.2, Signal Generation and Delivery.

RATIONALE
       Although  this  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008 requires that signals that cannot be ignored shall not be added to the
       signal mask when a signal-catching function is entered, there is no explicit requirement that subsequent calls
       to sigaction() reflect this in the information returned in the oact argument. In other words,  if  SIGKILL  is
       included  in  the  sa_mask field of act, it is unspecified whether or not a subsequent call to sigaction() re‐
       turns with SIGKILL included in the sa_mask field of oact.

       The SA_NOCLDSTOP flag, when supplied in the act->sa_flags parameter, allows overloading SIGCHLD with the  Sys‐
       tem V semantics that each SIGCLD signal indicates a single terminated child. Most conforming applications that
       catch  SIGCHLD  are  expected to install signal-catching functions that repeatedly call the waitpid() function
       with the WNOHANG flag set, acting on each child for which status is returned, until waitpid() returns zero. If
       stopped children are not of interest, the use of the SA_NOCLDSTOP flag can prevent the overhead from  invoking
       the signal-catching routine when they stop.

       Some  historical  implementations  also  define  other mechanisms for stopping processes, such as the ptrace()
       function. These implementations usually do not generate a SIGCHLD signal when processes stop due to this mech‐
       anism; however, that is beyond the scope of this volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

       This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 requires that calls to sigaction() that supply a NULL act argument  succeed,  even
       in  the case of signals that cannot be caught or ignored (that is, SIGKILL or SIGSTOP).  The System V signal()
       and BSD sigvec() functions return [EINVAL] in these cases and, in this respect,  their  behavior  varies  from
       sigaction().

       This  volume of POSIX.1‐2008 requires that sigaction() properly save and restore a signal action set up by the
       ISO C standard signal() function. However, there is no guarantee that the reverse is true, nor could there  be
       given  the  greater  amount  of information conveyed by the sigaction structure. Because of this, applications
       should avoid using both functions for the same signal in the same process. Since this cannot always be avoided
       in case of general-purpose library routines, they should always be implemented with sigaction().

       It was intended that the signal() function should be implementable as a library routine using sigaction().

       The POSIX Realtime Extension extends the sigaction() function as specified by the POSIX.1‐1990 standard to al‐
       low the application to request on a per-signal basis via an additional signal action flag that the extra para‐
       meters, including the application-defined signal value, if any, be passed to the signal-catching function.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.4, Signal Concepts, exec,  kill(),  _longjmp(),  longjmp(),  pthread_sigmask(),  raise(),  semget(),
       sem_init(),  sem_open(),  sigaddset(), sigaltstack(), sigdelset(), sigemptyset(), sigfillset(), sigismember(),
       signal(), sigsuspend(), wait(), waitid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           SIGACTION(3P)
