SIGDELSET(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 SIGDELSET(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigdelset — delete a signal from a signal set

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigdelset(sigset_t *set, int signo);

DESCRIPTION
       The  sigdelset()  function  deletes the individual signal specified by signo from the signal set pointed to by
       set.

       Applications should call either sigemptyset() or sigfillset() at least once for each object of  type  sigset_t
       prior  to  any  other use of that object. If such an object is not initialized in this way, but is nonetheless
       supplied as an argument to any of pthread_sigmask(),  sigaction(),  sigaddset(),  sigdelset(),  sigismember(),
       sigpending(),  sigprocmask(), sigsuspend(), sigtimedwait(), sigwait(), or sigwaitinfo(), the results are unde‐
       fined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, sigdelset() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno  to  indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       The sigdelset() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The signo argument is not a valid signal number, or is an unsupported signal number.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.4, Signal Concepts, pthread_sigmask(), sigaction(), sigaddset(), sigemptyset(), sigfillset(), sigis‐
       member(), sigpending(), sigsuspend()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           SIGDELSET(3P)
