SIGEMPTYSET(3P)                               POSIX Programmer's Manual                               SIGEMPTYSET(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigemptyset — initialize and empty a signal set

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigemptyset(sigset_t *set);

DESCRIPTION
       The  sigemptyset()  function  initializes  the  signal set pointed to by set, such that all signals defined in
       POSIX.1‐2008 are excluded.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, sigemptyset() shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno to indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The implementation of the sigemptyset() (or sigfillset()) function could quite trivially clear  (or  set)  all
       the bits in the signal set. Alternatively, it would be reasonable to initialize part of the structure, such as
       a  version  field,  to permit binary-compatibility between releases where the size of the set varies. For such
       reasons, either sigemptyset() or sigfillset() must be called prior to any other use of the signal set, even if
       such use is read-only (for example, as an argument to sigpending()).  This function is not  intended  for  dy‐
       namic allocation.

       The  sigfillset()  and  sigemptyset() functions require that the resulting signal set include (or exclude) all
       the signals defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008. Although it  is  outside  the  scope  of  this  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008  to  place this requirement on signals that are implemented as extensions, it is recommended that
       implementation-defined signals also be affected by these functions. However, there may be a good reason for  a
       particular  signal  not to be affected. For example, blocking or ignoring an implementation-defined signal may
       have undesirable side-effects, whereas the default action for that signal is harmless.  In  such  a  case,  it
       would be preferable for such a signal to be excluded from the signal set returned by sigfillset().

       In  early  proposals  there  was no distinction between invalid and unsupported signals (the names of optional
       signals that were not supported by an implementation were not defined by that  implementation).  The  [EINVAL]
       error  was  thus specified as a required error for invalid signals. With that distinction, it is not necessary
       to require implementations of these functions to determine whether an optional signal is  actually  supported,
       as  that  could have a significant performance impact for little value. The error could have been required for
       invalid signals and optional for unsupported signals, but this seemed unnecessarily complex. Thus,  the  error
       is optional in both cases.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.4, Signal Concepts, pthread_sigmask(), sigaction(), sigaddset(), sigdelset(), sigfillset(), sigis‐
       member(), sigpending(), sigsuspend()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                         SIGEMPTYSET(3P)
