SIGHOLD(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   SIGHOLD(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sighold, sigignore, sigpause, sigrelse, sigset — signal management

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sighold(int sig);
       int sigignore(int sig);
       int sigpause(int sig);
       int sigrelse(int sig);
       void (*sigset(int sig, void (*disp)(int)))(int);

DESCRIPTION
       Use of any of these functions is unspecified in a multi-threaded process.

       The  sighold(),  sigignore(), sigpause(), sigrelse(), and sigset() functions provide simplified signal manage‐
       ment.

       The sigset() function shall modify signal dispositions. The sig argument specifies the signal,  which  may  be
       any  signal  except  SIGKILL  and  SIGSTOP. The disp argument specifies the signal's disposition, which may be
       SIG_DFL, SIG_IGN, or the address of a signal handler. If sigset() is used, and disp is the address of a signal
       handler, the system shall add sig to the signal mask of the calling process before executing the  signal  han‐
       dler;  when the signal handler returns, the system shall restore the signal mask of the calling process to its
       state prior to the delivery of the signal. In addition, if sigset() is used, and disp is  equal  to  SIG_HOLD,
       sig  shall be added to the signal mask of the calling process and sig's disposition shall remain unchanged. If
       sigset() is used, and disp is not equal to SIG_HOLD, sig shall be removed from the signal mask of the  calling
       process.

       The sighold() function shall add sig to the signal mask of the calling process.

       The sigrelse() function shall remove sig from the signal mask of the calling process.

       The sigignore() function shall set the disposition of sig to SIG_IGN.

       The  sigpause()  function shall remove sig from the signal mask of the calling process and suspend the calling
       process until a signal is received. The sigpause() function shall restore the signal mask of  the  process  to
       its original state before returning.

       If  the action for the SIGCHLD signal is set to SIG_IGN, child processes of the calling processes shall not be
       transformed into zombie processes when they terminate. If the calling process subsequently waits for its chil‐
       dren, and the process has no unwaited-for children that were transformed into zombie processes, it shall block
       until all of its children terminate, and wait(), waitid(), and waitpid() shall fail and set errno to [ECHILD].

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, sigset() shall return SIG_HOLD if the signal had been  blocked  and  the  signal's
       previous  disposition  if it had not been blocked. Otherwise, SIG_ERR shall be returned and errno set to indi‐
       cate the error.

       The sigpause() function shall suspend execution of the thread until a signal is received, whereupon  it  shall
       return −1 and set errno to [EINTR].

       For all other functions, upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned.  Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and
       errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EINVAL The sig argument is an illegal signal number.

       The sigset() and sigignore() functions shall fail if:

       EINVAL An  attempt  is  made to catch a signal that cannot be caught, or to ignore a signal that cannot be ig‐
              nored.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The sigaction() function provides a more comprehensive and reliable mechanism for controlling signals; new ap‐
       plications should use the sigaction() function instead of the obsolescent sigset() function.

       The sighold() function, in conjunction with sigrelse() or sigpause(), may be used to  establish  critical  re‐
       gions  of  code that require the delivery of a signal to be temporarily deferred. For broader portability, the
       pthread_sigmask() or sigprocmask() functions should be used instead  of  the  obsolescent  sighold()  and  si‐
       grelse() functions.

       For  broader portability, the sigsuspend() function should be used instead of the obsolescent sigpause() func‐
       tion.

RATIONALE
       Each of these historic functions has a direct analog in the other functions which  are  required  to  be  per-
       thread and thread-safe (aside from sigprocmask(), which is replaced by pthread_sigmask()).  The sigset() func‐
       tion can be implemented as a simple wrapper for sigaction().  The sighold() function is equivalent to sigproc‐
       mask()  or  pthread_sigmask()  with  SIG_BLOCK set. The sigignore() function is equivalent to sigaction() with
       SIG_IGN set. The sigpause() function is equivalent to sigsuspend().  The sigrelse() function is equivalent  to
       sigprocmask() or pthread_sigmask() with SIG_UNBLOCK set.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       These functions may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       Section  2.4,  Signal Concepts, exec, pause(), pthread_sigmask(), sigaction(), signal(), sigsuspend(), wait(),
       waitid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             SIGHOLD(3P)
