SIGISMEMBER(3P)                               POSIX Programmer's Manual                               SIGISMEMBER(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigismember — test for a signal in a signal set

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigismember(const sigset_t *set, int signo);

DESCRIPTION
       The  sigismember() function shall test whether the signal specified by signo is a member of the set pointed to
       by set.

       Applications should call either sigemptyset() or sigfillset() at least once for each object of  type  sigset_t
       prior  to  any  other use of that object. If such an object is not initialized in this way, but is nonetheless
       supplied as an argument to any of pthread_sigmask(),  sigaction(),  sigaddset(),  sigdelset(),  sigismember(),
       sigpending(),  sigprocmask(), sigsuspend(), sigtimedwait(), sigwait(), or sigwaitinfo(), the results are unde‐
       fined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, sigismember() shall return 1 if the specified signal is a member of the  specified
       set, or 0 if it is not. Otherwise, it shall return −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The sigismember() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The signo argument is not a valid signal number, or is an unsupported signal number.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section  2.4, Signal Concepts, pthread_sigmask(), sigaction(), sigaddset(), sigdelset(), sigfillset(), sigemp‐
       tyset(), sigpending(), sigsuspend()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                         SIGISMEMBER(3P)
