SIGLONGJMP(3P)                                POSIX Programmer's Manual                                SIGLONGJMP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       siglongjmp — non-local goto with signal handling

SYNOPSIS
       #include <setjmp.h>

       void siglongjmp(sigjmp_buf env, int val);

DESCRIPTION
       The siglongjmp() function shall be equivalent to the longjmp() function, except as follows:

        *  References to setjmp() shall be equivalent to sigsetjmp().

        *  The siglongjmp() function shall restore the saved signal mask if and only if the env argument was initial‐
           ized by a call to sigsetjmp() with a non-zero savemask argument.

RETURN VALUE
       After  siglongjmp()  is  completed,  program  execution  shall  continue as if the corresponding invocation of
       sigsetjmp() had just returned the  value  specified  by  val.   The  siglongjmp()  function  shall  not  cause
       sigsetjmp() to return 0; if val is 0, sigsetjmp() shall return the value 1.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The distinction between setjmp() or longjmp() and sigsetjmp() or siglongjmp() is only significant for programs
       which use sigaction(), sigprocmask(), or sigsuspend().

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       longjmp(), pthread_sigmask(), setjmp(), sigsetjmp(), sigsuspend()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <setjmp.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                          SIGLONGJMP(3P)
