SIGQUEUE(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  SIGQUEUE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigqueue — queue a signal to a process

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigqueue(pid_t pid, int signo, const union sigval value);

DESCRIPTION
       The sigqueue() function shall cause the signal specified by signo to be sent with the value specified by value
       to  the process specified by pid.  If signo is zero (the null signal), error checking is performed but no sig‐
       nal is actually sent. The null signal can be used to check the validity of pid.

       The conditions required for a process to have permission to queue a signal to another process are the same  as
       for the kill() function.

       The  sigqueue()  function  shall  return immediately. If SA_SIGINFO is set for signo and if the resources were
       available to queue the signal, the signal shall be queued and sent to the receiving process. If SA_SIGINFO  is
       not  set for signo, then signo shall be sent at least once to the receiving process; it is unspecified whether
       value shall be sent to the receiving process as a result of this call.

       If the value of pid causes signo to be generated for the sending process, and if signo is not blocked for  the
       calling thread and if no other thread has signo unblocked or is waiting in a sigwait() function for signo, ei‐
       ther  signo  or  at  least  the  pending, unblocked signal shall be delivered to the calling thread before the
       sigqueue() function returns. Should any multiple pending signals in the range SIGRTMIN to SIGRTMAX be selected
       for delivery, it shall be the lowest numbered one.  The selection order between realtime and non-realtime sig‐
       nals, or between multiple pending non-realtime signals, is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the specified signal shall have been queued, and the sigqueue() function shall re‐
       turn a value of zero. Otherwise, the function shall return a value of −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The sigqueue() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN No resources are available to queue the signal. The process has already queued  {SIGQUEUE_MAX}  signals
              that are still pending at the receiver(s), or a system-wide resource limit has been exceeded.

       EINVAL The value of the signo argument is an invalid or unsupported signal number.

       EPERM  The process does not have appropriate privileges to send the signal to the receiving process.

       ESRCH  The process pid does not exist.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  sigqueue()  function  allows  an  application to queue a realtime signal to itself or to another process,
       specifying the application-defined value. This is common practice in realtime applications on  existing  real‐
       time  systems.   It was felt that specifying another function in the sig...  name space already carved out for
       signals was preferable to extending the interface to kill().

       Such a function became necessary when the put/get event function of the message queues was removed. It  should
       be  noted  that  the sigqueue() function implies reduced performance in a security-conscious implementation as
       the access permissions between the sender and receiver have to be checked on each send when  the  pid  is  re‐
       solved into a target process. Such access checks were necessary only at message queue open in the previous in‐
       terface.

       The  standard  developers  required that sigqueue() have the same semantics with respect to the null signal as
       kill(), and that the same permission checking be used. But because  of  the  difficulty  of  implementing  the
       ``broadcast''  semantic  of  kill() (for example, to process groups) and the interaction with resource alloca‐
       tion, this semantic was not adopted. The sigqueue() function queues a signal to a single process specified  by
       the pid argument.

       The  sigqueue()  function  can  fail if the system has insufficient resources to queue the signal. An explicit
       limit on the number of queued signals that a process could send was introduced.  While  the  limit  is  ``per-
       sender'',  this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not specify that the resources be part of the state of the sender.
       This would require either that the sender be maintained after exit until all signals that it had sent to other
       processes were handled or that all such signals that had not yet been acted upon be removed from the  queue(s)
       of  the receivers. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not preclude this behavior, but an implementation that al‐
       located queuing resources from a system-wide pool (with per-sender limits)  and  that  leaves  queued  signals
       pending after the sender exits is also permitted.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.8.1, Realtime Signals

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            SIGQUEUE(3P)
