SIGSETJMP(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 SIGSETJMP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigsetjmp — set jump point for a non-local goto

SYNOPSIS
       #include <setjmp.h>

       int sigsetjmp(sigjmp_buf env, int savemask);

DESCRIPTION
       The sigsetjmp() function shall be equivalent to the setjmp() function, except as follows:

        *  References to setjmp() are equivalent to sigsetjmp().

        *  References to longjmp() are equivalent to siglongjmp().

        *  If the value of the savemask argument is not 0, sigsetjmp() shall also save the current signal mask of the
           calling thread as part of the calling environment.

RETURN VALUE
       If the return is from a successful direct invocation, sigsetjmp() shall return 0. If the return is from a call
       to siglongjmp(), sigsetjmp() shall return a non-zero value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The distinction between setjmp()/longjmp() and sigsetjmp()/siglongjmp() is only significant for programs which
       use sigaction(), sigprocmask(), or sigsuspend().

       Note  that since this function is defined in terms of setjmp(), if savemask is zero, it is unspecified whether
       the signal mask is saved.

RATIONALE
       The ISO C standard specifies various restrictions on the usage of the setjmp() macro in order to permit imple‐
       mentors to recognize the name in the compiler and not implement an actual function.  These  same  restrictions
       apply to the sigsetjmp() macro.

       There  are  processors that cannot easily support these calls, but this was not considered a sufficient reason
       to exclude them.

       4.2 BSD, 4.3 BSD, and XSI-conformant systems provide functions named _setjmp() and _longjmp()  that,  together
       with  setjmp()  and  longjmp(), provide the same functionality as sigsetjmp() and siglongjmp().  On those sys‐
       tems, setjmp() and longjmp() save and restore signal masks, while _setjmp() and _longjmp() do not. On System V
       Release 3 and in corresponding issues of the SVID, setjmp() and longjmp() are explicitly defined not  to  save
       and  restore  signal  masks.  In order to permit existing practice in both cases, the relation of setjmp() and
       longjmp() to signal masks is not specified, and a new set of functions is defined instead.

       The longjmp() and siglongjmp() functions operate as in the previous issue provided the  matching  setjmp()  or
       sigsetjmp()  has been performed in the same thread. Non-local jumps into contexts saved by other threads would
       be at best a questionable practice and were not considered worthy of standardization.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       pthread_sigmask(), siglongjmp(), signal(), sigsuspend()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <setjmp.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           SIGSETJMP(3P)
