SIGTIMEDWAIT(3P)                              POSIX Programmer's Manual                              SIGTIMEDWAIT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigtimedwait, sigwaitinfo — wait for queued signals

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigtimedwait(const sigset_t *restrict set,
           siginfo_t *restrict info,
           const struct timespec *restrict timeout);
       int sigwaitinfo(const sigset_t *restrict set,
           siginfo_t *restrict info);

DESCRIPTION
       The  sigtimedwait() function shall be equivalent to sigwaitinfo() except that if none of the signals specified
       by set are pending, sigtimedwait() shall wait for the time interval specified in the timespec structure refer‐
       enced by timeout.  If the timespec structure pointed to by timeout is zero-valued and if none of  the  signals
       specified  by  set  are pending, then sigtimedwait() shall return immediately with an error. If timeout is the
       null pointer, the behavior is unspecified.  If the Monotonic Clock option is  supported,  the  CLOCK_MONOTONIC
       clock shall be used to measure the time interval specified by the timeout argument.

       The  sigwaitinfo()  function selects the pending signal from the set specified by set.  Should any of multiple
       pending signals in the range SIGRTMIN to SIGRTMAX be selected, it shall be the lowest numbered one. The selec‐
       tion order between realtime and non-realtime signals, or between multiple pending non-realtime signals, is un‐
       specified. If no signal in set is pending at the time of the call, the calling thread shall be suspended until
       one or more signals in set become pending or until it is interrupted by an unblocked, caught signal.

       The sigwaitinfo() function shall be equivalent to the sigwait() function if the info argument is NULL. If  the
       info  argument  is  non-NULL, the sigwaitinfo() function shall be equivalent to sigwait(), except that the se‐
       lected signal number shall be stored in the si_signo member, and the cause of the signal shall  be  stored  in
       the  si_code  member.  If any value is queued to the selected signal, the first such queued value shall be de‐
       queued and, if the info argument is non-NULL, the value shall be stored in the si_value member of  info.   The
       system  resource  used  to  queue the signal shall be released and returned to the system for other use. If no
       value is queued, the content of the si_value member is undefined. If no further signals are queued for the se‐
       lected signal, the pending indication for that signal shall be reset.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion (that is, one of the signals specified by set is pending or is generated)  sigwait‐
       info()  and  sigtimedwait()  shall  return  the selected signal number. Otherwise, the function shall return a
       value of −1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The sigtimedwait() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN No signal specified by set was generated within the specified timeout period.

       The sigtimedwait() and sigwaitinfo() functions may fail if:

       EINTR  The wait was interrupted by an unblocked, caught signal. It shall be documented in system documentation
              whether this error causes these functions to fail.

       The sigtimedwait() function may also fail if:

       EINVAL The timeout argument specified a tv_nsec value less than zero or greater than or equal to 1000 million.

       An implementation should only check for this error if no signal is pending in set and it is necessary to wait.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The sigtimedwait() function times out and returns an [EAGAIN] error. Application developers should  note  that
       this is inconsistent with other functions such as pthread_cond_timedwait() that return [ETIMEDOUT].

       Note  that  in  order  to  ensure that generated signals are queued and signal values passed to sigqueue() are
       available in si_value, applications which use sigwaitinfo() or sigtimedwait() need to set the SA_SIGINFO  flag
       for  each  signal in the set (see Section 2.4, Signal Concepts).  This means setting each signal to be handled
       by a three-argument signal-catching function, even if the handler will never be called.  It  is  not  possible
       (portably)  to  set  a  signal  handler to SIG_DFL while setting the SA_SIGINFO flag, because assigning to the
       sa_handler member of struct sigaction instead of the sa_sigaction member would result in  undefined  behavior,
       and  SIG_DFL  need  not  be  assignment-compatible  with  sa_sigaction.   Even  if an assignment of SIG_DFL to
       sa_sigaction is accepted by the compiler, the implementation need not treat this  value  as  special—it  could
       just be taken as the address of a signal-catching function.

RATIONALE
       Existing  programming  practice  on  realtime  systems uses the ability to pause waiting for a selected set of
       events and handle the first event that occurs in-line instead of in a signal-handling  function.  This  allows
       applications to be written in an event-directed style similar to a state machine. This style of programming is
       useful for largescale transaction processing in which the overall throughput of an application and the ability
       to  clearly track states are more important than the ability to minimize the response time of individual event
       handling.

       It is possible to construct a signal-waiting macro function out of the realtime signal function mechanism  de‐
       fined  in  this  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008. However, such a macro has to include the definition of a generalized
       handler for all signals to be waited on. A significant portion of the overhead of handler  processing  can  be
       avoided  if  the signal-waiting function is provided by the kernel. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 therefore pro‐
       vides two signal-waiting functions—one that waits indefinitely and one with a timeout—as part of  the  overall
       realtime signal function specification.

       The specification of a function with a timeout allows an application to be written that can be broken out of a
       wait  after a set period of time if no event has occurred. It was argued that setting a timer event before the
       wait and recognizing the timer event in the wait would also implement the same functionality, but at  a  lower
       performance  level.  Because  of the performance degradation associated with the user-level specification of a
       timer event and the subsequent cancellation of that timer event after the wait completes for  a  valid  event,
       and  the  complexity associated with handling potential race conditions associated with the user-level method,
       the separate function has been included.

       Note that the semantics of the sigwaitinfo() function are nearly identical to that of the  sigwait()  function
       defined  by  this  volume of POSIX.1‐2008. The only difference is that sigwaitinfo() returns the queued signal
       value in the value argument. The return of the queued value is required so that applications can differentiate
       between multiple events queued to the same signal number.

       The two distinct functions are being maintained because some implementations may choose to implement the POSIX
       Threads Extension functions and not implement the queued signals extensions. Note, though, that  sigwaitinfo()
       does not return the queued value if the value argument is NULL, so the POSIX Threads Extension sigwait() func‐
       tion can be implemented as a macro on sigwaitinfo().

       The  sigtimedwait()  function  was separated from the sigwaitinfo() function to address concerns regarding the
       overloading of the timeout pointer to indicate indefinite wait (no timeout), timed wait, and immediate return,
       and concerns regarding consistency with other functions where the conditional and timed  waits  were  separate
       functions  from  the  pure blocking function. The semantics of sigtimedwait() are specified such that sigwait‐
       info() could be implemented as a macro with a null pointer for timeout.

       The sigwait functions provide a synchronous mechanism for threads to wait  for  asynchronously-generated  sig‐
       nals.  One  important question was how many threads that are suspended in a call to a sigwait() function for a
       signal should return from the call when the signal is sent. Four choices were considered:

        1. Return an error for multiple simultaneous calls to sigwait functions for the same signal.

        2. One or more threads return.

        3. All waiting threads return.

        4. Exactly one thread returns.

       Prohibiting multiple calls to sigwait() for the same signal was felt to be overly restrictive.  The  ``one  or
       more''  behavior  made  implementation  of  conforming  packages  easy at the expense of forcing POSIX threads
       clients to protect against multiple simultaneous calls to sigwait() in application code in  order  to  achieve
       predictable  behavior.  There  was  concern that the ``all waiting threads'' behavior would result in ``signal
       broadcast storms'', consuming excessive CPU resources by replicating the signals in the general case. Further‐
       more, no convincing examples could be presented that delivery to all was either simpler or more powerful  than
       delivery to one.

       Thus,  the consensus was that exactly one thread that was suspended in a call to a sigwait function for a sig‐
       nal should return when that signal occurs. This is not an onerous restriction as:

        *  A multi-way signal wait can be built from the single-way wait.

        *  Signals should only be handled by application-level code, as library routines cannot guess what the appli‐
           cation wants to do with signals generated for the entire process.

        *  Applications can thus arrange for a single thread to wait for any given signal and call  any  needed  rou‐
           tines upon its arrival.

       In an application that is using signals for interprocess communication, signal processing is typically done in
       one  place.  Alternatively, if the signal is being caught so that process cleanup can be done, the signal han‐
       dler thread can call separate process cleanup routines for each portion of the application. Since the applica‐
       tion main line started each portion of the application, it is at the right abstraction level to tell each por‐
       tion of the application to clean up.

       Certainly, there exist programming styles where it is logical to consider waiting for a single signal in  mul‐
       tiple  threads. A simple sigwait_multiple() routine can be constructed to achieve this goal. A possible imple‐
       mentation would be to have each sigwait_multiple() caller registered as having expressed interest in a set  of
       signals.   The  caller then waits on a thread-specific condition variable. A single server thread calls a sig‐
       wait() function on the union of all registered signals. When the sigwait() function returns,  the  appropriate
       state  is set and condition variables are broadcast. New sigwait_multiple() callers may cause the pending sig‐
       wait() call to be canceled and reissued in order to update the set of signals being waited for.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.4, Signal Concepts, Section 2.8.1, Realtime Signals, pause(), pthread_sigmask(),  sigaction(),  sig‐
       pending(), sigsuspend(), sigwait()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>, <time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                        SIGTIMEDWAIT(3P)
