SIGWAIT(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   SIGWAIT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigwait — wait for queued signals

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigwait(const sigset_t *restrict set, int *restrict sig);

DESCRIPTION
       The  sigwait()  function  shall select a pending signal from set, atomically clear it from the system's set of
       pending signals, and return that signal number in the location referenced by sig.  If prior  to  the  call  to
       sigwait() there are multiple pending instances of a single signal number, it is implementation-defined whether
       upon  successful return there are any remaining pending signals for that signal number.  If the implementation
       supports queued signals and there are multiple signals queued for the signal number selected, the  first  such
       queued  signal  shall cause a return from sigwait() and the remainder shall remain queued. If no signal in set
       is pending at the time of the call, the thread shall be suspended until one or more becomes pending. The  sig‐
       nals  defined  by set shall have been blocked at the time of the call to sigwait(); otherwise, the behavior is
       undefined. The effect of sigwait() on the signal actions for the signals in set is unspecified.

       If more than one thread is using sigwait() to wait for the same signal, no more  than  one  of  these  threads
       shall return from sigwait() with the signal number. If more than a single thread is blocked in sigwait() for a
       signal  when  that signal is generated for the process, it is unspecified which of the waiting threads returns
       from sigwait().  If the signal is generated for a specific thread, as  by  pthread_kill(),  only  that  thread
       shall return.

       Should any of the multiple pending signals in the range SIGRTMIN to SIGRTMAX be selected, it shall be the low‐
       est  numbered  one. The selection order between realtime and non-realtime signals, or between multiple pending
       non-realtime signals, is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, sigwait() shall store the signal number of the received  signal  at  the  location
       referenced by sig and return zero. Otherwise, an error number shall be returned to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The sigwait() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The set argument contains an invalid or unsupported signal number.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       To  provide  a convenient way for a thread to wait for a signal, this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 provides the sig‐
       wait() function. For most cases where a thread has to wait for a signal,  the  sigwait()  function  should  be
       quite convenient, efficient, and adequate.

       However,  requests  were made for a lower-level primitive than sigwait() and for semaphores that could be used
       by threads. After some consideration, threads were allowed to use semaphores and sem_post() was defined to  be
       async-signal-safe.

       In  summary,  when it is necessary for code run in response to an asynchronous signal to notify a thread, sig‐
       wait() should be used to handle the signal. Alternatively, if the  implementation  provides  semaphores,  they
       also  can  be  used, either following sigwait() or from within a signal handling routine previously registered
       with sigaction().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.4, Signal Concepts, Section 2.8.1, Realtime Signals, pause(), pthread_sigmask(),  sigaction(),  sig‐
       pending(), sigsuspend(), sigtimedwait()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>, <time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             SIGWAIT(3P)
