SLEEP(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     SLEEP(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sleep — suspend execution for an interval

SYNOPSIS
       sleep time

DESCRIPTION
       The  sleep  utility  shall suspend execution for at least the integral number of seconds specified by the time
       operand.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       time      A non-negative decimal integer specifying the number of seconds for which to suspend execution.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of sleep:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       If the sleep utility receives a SIGALRM signal, one of the following actions shall be taken:

        1. Terminate normally with a zero exit status.

        2. Effectively ignore the signal.

        3. Provide the default behavior for signals described in the ASYNCHRONOUS  EVENTS  section  of  Section  1.4,
           Utility Description Defaults.  This could include terminating with a non-zero exit status.

       The sleep utility shall take the standard action for all other signals.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    The  execution  was  successfully suspended for at least time seconds, or a SIGALRM signal was received.
             See the ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS section.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       The sleep utility can be used to execute a command after a certain amount of time, as in:

           (sleep 105; command) &

       or to execute a command every so often, as in:

           while true
           do
               command
               sleep 37
           done

RATIONALE
       The exit status is allowed to be zero when sleep is interrupted by the SIGALRM signal because most implementa‐
       tions of this utility rely on the arrival of that signal to notify them that the requested finishing time  has
       been  successfully  attained.  Such implementations thus do not distinguish this situation from the successful
       completion case. Other implementations are allowed to catch the signal and go back  to  sleep  until  the  re‐
       quested time expires or to provide the normal signal termination procedures.

       As  with all other utilities that take integral operands and do not specify subranges of allowed values, sleep
       is required by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 to deal with time requests of up to 2147483647  seconds.  This  may
       mean  that some implementations have to make multiple calls to the delay mechanism of the underlying operating
       system if its argument range is less than this.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       wait

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, alarm(), sleep()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               SLEEP(1P)
