SLEEP(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     SLEEP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sleep — suspend execution for an interval of time

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       unsigned sleep(unsigned seconds);

DESCRIPTION
       The  sleep() function shall cause the calling thread to be suspended from execution until either the number of
       realtime seconds specified by the argument seconds has elapsed or a signal is delivered to the calling  thread
       and its action is to invoke a signal-catching function or to terminate the process. The suspension time may be
       longer than requested due to the scheduling of other activity by the system.

       If a SIGALRM signal is generated for the calling process during execution of sleep() and if the SIGALRM signal
       is  being  ignored or blocked from delivery, it is unspecified whether sleep() returns when the SIGALRM signal
       is scheduled. If the signal is being blocked, it is also unspecified whether it remains pending after  sleep()
       returns or it is discarded.

       If  a SIGALRM signal is generated for the calling process during execution of sleep(), except as a result of a
       prior call to alarm(), and if the SIGALRM signal is not being ignored or blocked from delivery, it is unspeci‐
       fied whether that signal has any effect other than causing sleep() to return.

       If a signal-catching function interrupts sleep() and examines or changes either the time a SIGALRM  is  sched‐
       uled  to be generated, the action associated with the SIGALRM signal, or whether the SIGALRM signal is blocked
       from delivery, the results are unspecified.

       If a signal-catching function interrupts sleep() and calls siglongjmp() or longjmp() to restore an environment
       saved prior to the sleep() call, the action associated with the SIGALRM signal and the time at which a SIGALRM
       signal is scheduled to be generated are unspecified.  It is also unspecified whether  the  SIGALRM  signal  is
       blocked, unless the signal mask of the process is restored as part of the environment.

       Interactions between sleep() and setitimer() are unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       If  sleep()  returns because the requested time has elapsed, the value returned shall be 0. If sleep() returns
       due to delivery of a signal, the return value shall be the ``unslept'' amount (the requested  time  minus  the
       time actually slept) in seconds.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       There  are  two  general  approaches  to the implementation of the sleep() function. One is to use the alarm()
       function to schedule a SIGALRM signal and then suspend the calling thread waiting for that signal.  The  other
       is to implement an independent facility. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 permits either approach.

       In  order  to comply with the requirement that no primitive shall change a process attribute unless explicitly
       described by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, an implementation using SIGALRM must carefully take into account any
       SIGALRM signal scheduled by previous alarm() calls, the action previously established for SIGALRM, and whether
       SIGALRM was blocked. If a SIGALRM has been scheduled before the sleep() would ordinarily complete, the sleep()
       must be shortened to that time and a SIGALRM generated (possibly simulated by direct invocation of the signal-
       catching function) before sleep() returns. If a SIGALRM has been scheduled after the sleep() would  ordinarily
       complete, it must be rescheduled for the same time before sleep() returns. The action and blocking for SIGALRM
       must be saved and restored.

       Historical  implementations often implement the SIGALRM-based version using alarm() and pause().  One such im‐
       plementation is prone to infinite hangups, as described in pause().  Another such implementation uses  the  C-
       language  setjmp()  and  longjmp()  functions to avoid that window. That implementation introduces a different
       problem: when the SIGALRM signal interrupts a signal-catching function installed by the user to catch  a  dif‐
       ferent  signal,  the longjmp() aborts that signal-catching function. An implementation based on sigprocmask(),
       alarm(), and sigsuspend() can avoid these problems.

       Despite all reasonable care, there are several very subtle, but detectable and  unavoidable,  differences  be‐
       tween  the  two  types  of implementations. These are the cases mentioned in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 where
       some other activity relating to SIGALRM takes place, and the results are stated  to  be  unspecified.  All  of
       these cases are sufficiently unusual as not to be of concern to most applications.

       See also the discussion of the term realtime in alarm().

       Since  sleep() can be implemented using alarm(), the discussion about alarms occurring early under alarm() ap‐
       plies to sleep() as well.

       Application developers should note that the type of the argument seconds and the return value  of  sleep()  is
       unsigned.   That  means  that  a  Strictly  Conforming POSIX System Interfaces Application cannot pass a value
       greater than the minimum guaranteed value for {UINT_MAX}, which the ISO C standard sets as 65535, and any  ap‐
       plication passing a larger value is restricting its portability. A different type was considered, but histori‐
       cal implementations, including those with a 16-bit int type, consistently use either unsigned or int.

       Scheduling  delays may cause the process to return from the sleep() function significantly after the requested
       time. In such cases, the return value should be set to zero, since the formula (requested time minus the  time
       actually spent) yields a negative number and sleep() returns an unsigned.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       alarm(), getitimer(), nanosleep(), pause(), sigaction(), sigsetjmp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               SLEEP(3P)
