SOCKETPAIR(3P)                                POSIX Programmer's Manual                                SOCKETPAIR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       socketpair — create a pair of connected sockets

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int socketpair(int domain, int type, int protocol,
           int socket_vector[2]);

DESCRIPTION
       The socketpair() function shall create an unbound pair of connected sockets in a specified domain, of a speci‐
       fied  type, under the protocol optionally specified by the protocol argument. The two sockets shall be identi‐
       cal. The file descriptors used in referencing the created sockets shall be returned  in  socket_vector[0]  and
       socket_vector[1].

       The socketpair() function takes the following arguments:

       domain      Specifies the communications domain in which the sockets are to be created.

       type        Specifies the type of sockets to be created.

       protocol    Specifies  a  particular  protocol to be used with the sockets.  Specifying a protocol of 0 causes
                   socketpair() to use an unspecified default protocol appropriate for the requested socket type.

       socket_vector
                   Specifies a 2-integer array to hold the file descriptors of the created socket pair.

       The type argument specifies the socket type, which determines the semantics of communications over the socket.
       The following socket types are defined; implementations may specify additional socket types:

       SOCK_STREAM   Provides sequenced, reliable, bidirectional, connection-mode byte streams,  and  may  provide  a
                     transmission mechanism for out-of-band data.

       SOCK_DGRAM    Provides datagrams, which are connectionless-mode, unreliable messages of fixed maximum length.

       SOCK_SEQPACKET
                     Provides  sequenced,  reliable, bidirectional, connection-mode transmission paths for records. A
                     record can be sent using one or more output operations and received using one or more input  op‐
                     erations, but a single operation never transfers part of more than one record. Record boundaries
                     are visible to the receiver via the MSG_EOR flag.

       If  the protocol argument is non-zero, it shall specify a protocol that is supported by the address family. If
       the protocol argument is zero, the default protocol for this address family and type shall be used. The proto‐
       cols supported by the system are implementation-defined.

       The process may need to have appropriate privileges to use the socketpair() function or to create  some  sock‐
       ets.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, this function shall return 0; otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to in‐
       dicate the error.

ERRORS
       The socketpair() function shall fail if:

       EAFNOSUPPORT
              The implementation does not support the specified address family.

       EMFILE All, or all but one, of the file descriptors available to the process are currently open.

       ENFILE No more file descriptors are available for the system.

       EOPNOTSUPP
              The specified protocol does not permit creation of socket pairs.

       EPROTONOSUPPORT
              The  protocol is not supported by the address family, or the protocol is not supported by the implemen‐
              tation.

       EPROTOTYPE
              The socket type is not supported by the protocol.

       The socketpair() function may fail if:

       EACCES The process does not have appropriate privileges.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The documentation for specific address families specifies which protocols each address  family  supports.  The
       documentation for specific protocols specifies which socket types each protocol supports.

       The  socketpair()  function is used primarily with UNIX domain sockets and need not be supported for other do‐
       mains.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       socket()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                          SOCKETPAIR(3P)
