SOCKET(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    SOCKET(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       socket — create an endpoint for communication

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int socket(int domain, int type, int protocol);

DESCRIPTION
       The  socket() function shall create an unbound socket in a communications domain, and return a file descriptor
       that can be used in later function calls that operate on sockets.

       The socket() function takes the following arguments:

       domain      Specifies the communications domain in which a socket is to be created.

       type        Specifies the type of socket to be created.

       protocol    Specifies a particular protocol to be used with the socket. Specifying  a  protocol  of  0  causes
                   socket() to use an unspecified default protocol appropriate for the requested socket type.

       The  domain argument specifies the address family used in the communications domain. The address families sup‐
       ported by the system are implementation-defined.

       Symbolic constants that can be used for the domain argument are defined in the <sys/socket.h> header.

       The type argument specifies the socket type, which determines the semantics of communication over the  socket.
       The following socket types are defined; implementations may specify additional socket types:

       SOCK_STREAM Provides  sequenced,  reliable,  bidirectional,  connection-mode  byte  streams, and may provide a
                   transmission mechanism for out-of-band data.

       SOCK_DGRAM  Provides datagrams, which are connectionless-mode, unreliable messages of fixed maximum length.

       SOCK_SEQPACKET
                   Provides sequenced, reliable, bidirectional, connection-mode transmission  paths  for  records.  A
                   record can be sent using one or more output operations and received using one or more input opera‐
                   tions,  but a single operation never transfers part of more than one record. Record boundaries are
                   visible to the receiver via the MSG_EOR flag.

       If the protocol argument is non-zero, it shall specify a protocol that is supported by the address family.  If
       the protocol argument is zero, the default protocol for this address family and type shall be used. The proto‐
       cols supported by the system are implementation-defined.

       The process may need to have appropriate privileges to use the socket() function or to create some sockets.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, socket() shall return a non-negative integer, the socket file descriptor.  Other‐
       wise, a value of −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The socket() function shall fail if:

       EAFNOSUPPORT
              The implementation does not support the specified address family.

       EMFILE All file descriptors available to the process are currently open.

       ENFILE No more file descriptors are available for the system.

       EPROTONOSUPPORT
              The protocol is not supported by the address family, or the protocol is not supported by the  implemen‐
              tation.

       EPROTOTYPE
              The socket type is not supported by the protocol.

       The socket() function may fail if:

       EACCES The process does not have appropriate privileges.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       ENOMEM Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  documentation  for  specific address families specifies which protocols each address family supports. The
       documentation for specific protocols specifies which socket types each protocol supports.

       The application can determine whether an address family is supported by trying to create a socket with  domain
       set to the protocol in question.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       accept(),  bind(),  connect(),  getsockname(),  getsockopt(), listen(), recv(), recvfrom(), recvmsg(), send(),
       sendmsg(), setsockopt(), shutdown(), socketpair()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <netinet_in.h>, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              SOCKET(3P)
