SOCKATMARK(3P)                                POSIX Programmer's Manual                                SOCKATMARK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sockatmark — determine whether a socket is at the out-of-band mark

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int sockatmark(int s);

DESCRIPTION
       The  sockatmark()  function shall determine whether the socket specified by the descriptor s is at the out-of-
       band data mark (see Section 2.10.12, Socket Out-of-Band Data State).  If the protocol for the socket  supports
       out-of-band data by marking the stream with an out-of-band data mark, the sockatmark() function shall return 1
       when  all  data preceding the mark has been read and the out-of-band data mark is the first element in the re‐
       ceive queue. The sockatmark() function shall not remove the mark from the stream.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the sockatmark() function shall return a value indicating whether the socket is at
       an out-of-band data mark. If the protocol has marked the data stream and all data preceding the mark has  been
       read, the return value shall be 1; if there is no mark, or if data precedes the mark in the receive queue, the
       sockatmark()  function  shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return a value of −1 and set errno to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The sockatmark() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The s argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ENOTTY The file associated with the s argument is not a socket.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The use of this function between receive operations allows an application to  determine  which  received  data
       precedes the out-of-band data and which follows the out-of-band data.

       There  is  an inherent race condition in the use of this function. On an empty receive queue, the current read
       of the location might well be at the ``mark'', but the system has no way of knowing that the next data segment
       that will arrive from the network will carry the mark, and sockatmark() will return false, and the  next  read
       operation will silently consume the mark.

       Hence,  this  function  can only be used reliably when the application already knows that the out-of-band data
       has been seen by the system or that it is known that there is data waiting to be read at the socket (via  SIG‐
       URG  or select()).  See Section 2.10.11, Socket Receive Queue, Section 2.10.12, Socket Out-of-Band Data State,
       Section 2.10.14, Signals, and pselect() for details.

RATIONALE
       The sockatmark() function replaces the historical SIOCATMARK command to ioctl()  which  implemented  the  same
       functionality on many implementations. Using a wrapper function follows the adopted conventions to avoid spec‐
       ifying  commands  to  the  ioctl() function, other than those now included to support XSI STREAMS. The sockat‐
       mark() function could be implemented as follows:

           #include <sys/ioctl.h>

           int sockatmark(int s)
           {
               int val;
               if (ioctl(s,SIOCATMARK,&val)==−1)
                   return(−1);
               return(val);
           }

       The use of [ENOTTY] to indicate an incorrect descriptor type matches the historical behavior of SIOCATMARK.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.10.12, Socket Out-of-Band Data State, pselect(), recv(), recvmsg()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                          SOCKATMARK(3P)
