SPLIT(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     SPLIT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       split — split files into pieces

SYNOPSIS
       split [−l line_count] [−a suffix_length] [file[name]]

       split −b n[k|m] [−a suffix_length] [file[name]]

DESCRIPTION
       The  split utility shall read an input file and write one or more output files.  The default size of each out‐
       put file shall be 1000 lines. The size of the output files can be modified by specification of the  −b  or  −l
       options.  Each  output  file  shall  be created with a unique suffix. The suffix shall consist of exactly suf‐
       fix_length lowercase letters from the POSIX locale. The letters of the suffix shall be used as if they were  a
       base-26  digit system, with the first suffix to be created consisting of all 'a' characters, the second with a
       'b' replacing the last 'a', and so on, until a name of all 'z' characters is created. By default, the names of
       the output files shall be 'x', followed by a two-character suffix from the character set as  described  above,
       starting with "aa", "ab", "ac", and so on, and continuing until the suffix "zz", for a maximum of 676 files.

       If  the number of files required exceeds the maximum allowed by the suffix length provided, such that the last
       allowable file would be larger than the requested size, the split utility shall fail after creating  the  last
       file  with  a valid suffix; split shall not delete the files it created with valid suffixes. If the file limit
       is not exceeded, the last file created shall contain the remainder of the input file, and may be smaller  than
       the requested size.

OPTIONS
       The  split  utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −a suffix_length
                 Use suffix_length letters to form the suffix portion of the filenames of the split file.  If  −a  is
                 not  specified,  the default suffix length shall be two. If the sum of the name operand and the suf‐
                 fix_length option-argument would create a filename exceeding {NAME_MAX} bytes, an  error  shall  re‐
                 sult; split shall exit with a diagnostic message and no files shall be created.

       −b n      Split a file into pieces n bytes in size.

       −b nk     Split a file into pieces n*1024 bytes in size.

       −b nm     Split a file into pieces n*1048576 bytes in size.

       −l line_count
                 Specify  the  number  of  lines in each resulting file piece. The line_count argument is an unsigned
                 decimal integer. The default is 1000. If the input does not end with a <newline>, the  partial  line
                 shall be included in the last output file.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       file      The  pathname  of the ordinary file to be split. If no input file is given or file is '−', the stan‐
                 dard input shall be used.

       name      The prefix to be used for each of the files resulting from the split operation. If no name  argument
                 is  given,  'x' shall be used as the prefix of the output files. The combined length of the basename
                 of prefix and suffix_length cannot exceed {NAME_MAX} bytes. See the OPTIONS section.

STDIN
       See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       Any file can be used as input.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of split:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The output files contain portions of the original input file; otherwise, unchanged.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       In the following examples foo is a text file that contains 5000 lines.

        1. Create five files, xaa, xab, xac, xad, and xae:

               split foo

        2. Create five files, but the suffixed portion of the created files consists of three  letters,  xaaa,  xaab,
           xaac, xaad, and xaae:

               split −a 3 foo

        3. Create three files with four-letter suffixes and a supplied prefix, bar_aaaa, bar_aaab, and bar_aaac:

               split −a 4 −l 2000 foo bar_

        4. Create  as many files as are necessary to contain at most 20*1024 bytes, each with the default prefix of x
           and a five-letter suffix:

               split −a 5 −b 20k foo

RATIONALE
       The −b option was added to provide a mechanism for splitting files other than by lines. While most uses of the
       −b option are for transmitting files over networks, some believed it would have additional uses.

       The −a option was added to overcome the limitation of being able to create only 676 files.

       Consideration was given to deleting this utility, using the rationale that the functionality provided by  this
       utility  is  available  via  the csplit utility (see csplit).  Upon reconsideration of the purpose of the User
       Portability Utilities option, it was decided to retain both this utility and the csplit utility because  users
       use  both  utilities  and  have  historical expectations of their behavior. Furthermore, the splitting on byte
       boundaries in split cannot be duplicated with the historical csplit.

       The text ``split shall not delete the files it created with valid suffixes'' would normally  be  assumed,  but
       since  the  related  utility,  csplit,  does delete files under some circumstances, the historical behavior of
       split is made explicit to avoid misinterpretation.

       Earlier versions of this standard  allowed  a  −line_count  option.  This  form  is  no  longer  specified  by
       POSIX.1‐2008 but may be present in some implementations.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       csplit

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               SPLIT(1P)
