SSSD(8)                                           SSSD Manual pages                                           SSSD(8)

NAME
       sssd - System Security Services Daemon

SYNOPSIS

       sssd [options]

DESCRIPTION
       SSSD provides a set of daemons to manage access to remote directories and authentication mechanisms. It
       provides an NSS and PAM interface toward the system and a pluggable backend system to connect to multiple
       different account sources as well as D-Bus interface. It is also the basis to provide client auditing and
       policy services for projects like FreeIPA. It provides a more robust database to store local users as well as
       extended user data.

OPTIONS
       -d,--debug-level LEVEL
           SSSD supports two representations for specifying the debug level. The simplest is to specify a decimal
           value from 0-9, which represents enabling that level and all lower-level debug messages. The more
           comprehensive option is to specify a hexadecimal bitmask to enable or disable specific levels (such as if
           you wish to suppress a level).

           Please note that each SSSD service logs into its own log file. Also please note that enabling
           “debug_level” in the “[sssd]” section only enables debugging just for the sssd process itself, not for the
           responder or provider processes. The “debug_level” parameter should be added to all sections that you wish
           to produce debug logs from.

           In addition to changing the log level in the config file using the “debug_level” parameter, which is
           persistent, but requires SSSD restart, it is also possible to change the debug level on the fly using the
           sss_debuglevel(8) tool.

           Currently supported debug levels:

           0, 0x0010: Fatal failures. Anything that would prevent SSSD from starting up or causes it to cease
           running.

           1, 0x0020: Critical failures. An error that doesn't kill SSSD, but one that indicates that at least one
           major feature is not going to work properly.

           2, 0x0040: Serious failures. An error announcing that a particular request or operation has failed.

           3, 0x0080: Minor failures. These are the errors that would percolate down to cause the operation failure
           of 2.

           4, 0x0100: Configuration settings.

           5, 0x0200: Function data.

           6, 0x0400: Trace messages for operation functions.

           7, 0x1000: Trace messages for internal control functions.

           8, 0x2000: Contents of function-internal variables that may be interesting.

           9, 0x4000: Extremely low-level tracing information.

           9, 0x20000: Performance and statistical data, please note that due to the way requests are processed
           internally the logged execution time of a request might be longer than it actually was.

           10, 0x10000: Even more low-level libldb tracing information. Almost never really required.

           To log required bitmask debug levels, simply add their numbers together as shown in following examples:

           Example: To log fatal failures, critical failures, serious failures and function data use 0x0270.

           Example: To log fatal failures, configuration settings, function data, trace messages for internal control
           functions use 0x1310.

           Note: The bitmask format of debug levels was introduced in 1.7.0.

           Default: 0x0070 (i.e. fatal, critical and serious failures; corresponds to setting 2 in decimal notation)

       --debug-timestamps=mode
           1: Add a timestamp to the debug messages

           0: Disable timestamp in the debug messages

           Default: 1

       --debug-microseconds=mode
           1: Add microseconds to the timestamp in debug messages

           0: Disable microseconds in timestamp

           Default: 0

       --logger=value
           Location where SSSD will send log messages.

           stderr: Redirect debug messages to standard error output.

           files: Redirect debug messages to the log files. By default, the log files are stored in /var/log/sssd and
           there are separate log files for every SSSD service and domain.

           journald: Redirect debug messages to systemd-journald

           Default: not set (fall back to journald if available, otherwise to stderr)

       -D,--daemon
           Become a daemon after starting up.

       -i,--interactive
           Run in the foreground, don't become a daemon.

       -c,--config
           Specify a non-default config file. The default is /etc/sssd/sssd.conf. For reference on the config file
           syntax and options, consult the sssd.conf(5) manual page.

       -g,--genconf
           Do not start the SSSD, but refresh the configuration database from the contents of /etc/sssd/sssd.conf and
           exit.

       -s,--genconf-section
           Similar to “--genconf”, but only refresh a single section from the configuration file. This option is
           useful mainly to be called from systemd unit files to allow socket-activated responders to refresh their
           configuration without requiring the administrator to restart the whole SSSD.

       -?,--help
           Display help message and exit.

       --version
           Print version number and exit.

SIGNALS
       SIGTERM/SIGINT
           Informs the SSSD to gracefully terminate all of its child processes and then shut down the monitor.

       SIGHUP
           Tells the SSSD to stop writing to its current debug file descriptors and to close and reopen them. This is
           meant to facilitate log rolling with programs like logrotate.

       SIGUSR1
           Tells the SSSD to simulate offline operation for the duration of the “offline_timeout” parameter. This is
           useful for testing. The signal can be sent to either the sssd process or any sssd_be process directly.

       SIGUSR2
           Tells the SSSD to go online immediately. This is useful for testing. The signal can be sent to either the
           sssd process or any sssd_be process directly.

NOTES
       If the environment variable SSS_NSS_USE_MEMCACHE is set to "NO", client applications will not use the fast
       in-memory cache.

SEE ALSO
       sssd(8), sssd.conf(5), sssd-ldap(5), sssd-ldap-attributes(5), sssd-krb5(5), sssd-simple(5), sssd-ipa(5), sssd-
       ad(5), sssd-files(5), sssd-sudo(5), sssd-session-recording(5), sss_cache(8), sss_debuglevel(8),
       sss_obfuscate(8), sss_seed(8), sssd_krb5_locator_plugin(8), sss_ssh_authorizedkeys(8),
       sss_ssh_knownhostsproxy(8), sssd-ifp(5), pam_sss(8).  sss_rpcidmapd(5) sssd-systemtap(5)

AUTHORS
       The SSSD upstream - https://github.com/SSSD/sssd/

SSSD                                                  01/26/2026                                              SSSD(8)
