STDIN(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     STDIN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       stderr, stdin, stdout — standard I/O streams

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       extern FILE *stderr, *stdin, *stdout;

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       A file with associated buffering is called a stream and is declared to be a pointer to a  defined  type  FILE.
       The  fopen() function shall create certain descriptive data for a stream and return a pointer to designate the
       stream in all further transactions. Normally, there are three open streams with constant pointers declared  in
       the <stdio.h> header and associated with the standard open files.

       At  program start-up, three streams shall be predefined and need not be opened explicitly: standard input (for
       reading conventional input), standard output (for writing conventional output), and standard error (for  writ‐
       ing  diagnostic  output). When opened, the standard error stream is not fully buffered; the standard input and
       standard output streams are fully buffered if and only if the stream can be determined not to refer to an  in‐
       teractive device.

       The  following  symbolic values in <unistd.h> define the file descriptors that shall be associated with the C-
       language stdin, stdout, and stderr when the application is started:

       STDIN_FILENO  Standard input value, stdin.  Its value is 0.

       STDOUT_FILENO Standard output value, stdout.  Its value is 1.

       STDERR_FILENO Standard error value, stderr.  Its value is 2.

       The stderr stream is expected to be open for reading and writing.

RETURN VALUE
       None.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fclose(), feof(), ferror(), fileno(), fopen(), fprintf(), fread(), fscanf(), fseek(), getc(), gets(), popen(),
       putc(), puts(), read(), setbuf(), setvbuf(), tmpfile(), ungetc(), vfprintf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               STDIN(3P)
