STRDUP(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    STRDUP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       strdup, strndup — duplicate a specific number of bytes from a string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <string.h>

       char *strdup(const char *s);
       char *strndup(const char *s, size_t size);

DESCRIPTION
       The strdup() function shall return a pointer to a new string, which is a duplicate of the string pointed to by
       s.  The returned pointer can be passed to free().  A null pointer is returned if the new string cannot be cre‐
       ated.

       The strndup() function shall be equivalent to the strdup() function, duplicating the provided s in a new block
       of  memory allocated as if by using malloc(), with the exception being that strndup() copies at most size plus
       one bytes into the newly allocated memory, terminating the new string with a NUL character. If the length of s
       is larger than size, only size bytes shall be duplicated. If size is larger than the length of s, all bytes in
       s shall be copied into the new memory buffer, including the  terminating  NUL  character.  The  newly  created
       string shall always be properly terminated.

RETURN VALUE
       The  strdup()  function  shall  return a pointer to a new string on success. Otherwise, it shall return a null
       pointer and set errno to indicate the error.

       Upon successful completion, the strndup() function shall return a pointer to the newly allocated  memory  con‐
       taining the duplicated string. Otherwise, it shall return a null pointer and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       ENOMEM Storage space available is insufficient.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       For functions that allocate memory as if by malloc(), the application should release such memory when it is no
       longer required by a call to free().  For strdup() and strndup(), this is the return value.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       free(), wcsdup()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <string.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              STRDUP(3P)
