STRERROR(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  STRERROR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       strerror, strerror_l, strerror_r — get error message string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <string.h>

       char *strerror(int errnum);
       char *strerror_l(int errnum, locale_t locale);
       int strerror_r(int errnum, char *strerrbuf, size_t buflen);

DESCRIPTION
       For  strerror():  The  functionality  described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any
       conflict between the requirements described here and the ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  strerror()  function  shall map the error number in errnum to a locale-dependent error message string and
       shall return a pointer to it. Typically, the values for errnum come from errno, but strerror() shall  map  any
       value of type int to a message.

       The application shall not modify the string returned.  The returned string pointer might be invalidated or the
       string  content  might  be  overwritten  by  a  subsequent call to strerror(), or by a subsequent call to str‐
       error_l() in the same thread.

       The string may be overwritten by a subsequent call to strerror_l() in the same thread.

       The contents of the error message strings returned by strerror() should be determined by the  setting  of  the
       LC_MESSAGES category in the current locale.

       The implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 calls strerror().

       The strerror() and strerror_l() functions shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       Since  no return value is reserved to indicate an error of strerror(), an application wishing to check for er‐
       ror situations should set errno to 0, then call strerror(), then check errno.  Similarly,  since  strerror_l()
       is  required  to  return  a  string  for some errors, an application wishing to check for all error situations
       should set errno to 0, then call strerror_l(), then check errno.

       The strerror() function need not be thread-safe.

       The strerror_l() function shall map the error number in errnum to a locale-dependent error message  string  in
       the locale represented by locale and shall return a pointer to it.

       The  strerror_r() function shall map the error number in errnum to a locale-dependent error message string and
       shall return the string in the buffer pointed to by strerrbuf, with length buflen.

       If the value of errnum is a valid error number, the message string shall indicate what error occurred; if  the
       value  of  errnum  is  zero,  the message string shall either be an empty string or indicate that no error oc‐
       curred; otherwise, if these functions complete successfully, the message string shall indicate that an unknown
       error occurred.

       The behavior is undefined if the locale argument to strerror_l() is the special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
       or is not a valid locale object handle.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon completion, whether successful or not, strerror() shall return a pointer to the generated message string.
       On error errno may be set, but no return value is reserved to indicate an error.

       Upon successful completion, strerror_l() shall return a pointer to the generated message string. If errnum  is
       not  a  valid error number, errno may be set to [EINVAL], but a pointer to a message string shall still be re‐
       turned. If any other error occurs, errno shall be set to indicate the error and a null pointer  shall  be  re‐
       turned.

       Upon successful completion, strerror_r() shall return 0. Otherwise, an error number shall be returned to indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL The value of errnum is neither a valid error number nor zero.

       The strerror_r() function may fail if:

       ERANGE Insufficient storage was supplied via strerrbuf and buflen to contain the generated message string.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Historically  in  some implementations, calls to perror() would overwrite the string that the pointer returned
       by strerror() points to. Such implementations did not conform to the ISO C standard; however, application  de‐
       velopers  should  be aware of this behavior if they wish their applications to be portable to such implementa‐
       tions.

RATIONALE
       The strerror_l() function is required to be thread-safe, thereby eliminating the need for an equivalent to the
       strerror_r() function.

       Earlier versions of this standard did not explicitly require that the error message strings returned  by  str‐
       error()  and  strerror_r()  provide  any  information about the error. This version of the standard requires a
       meaningful message for any successful completion.

       Since no return value is reserved to indicate a strerror() error, but all calls (whether  successful  or  not)
       must  return  a  pointer to a message string, on error strerror() can return a pointer to an empty string or a
       pointer to a meaningful string that can be printed.

       Note that the [EINVAL] error condition is a may fail error. If an invalid error  number  is  supplied  as  the
       value of errnum, applications should be prepared to handle any of the following:

        1. Error  (with  no  meaningful message): errno is set to [EINVAL], the return value is a pointer to an empty
           string.

        2. Successful completion: errno is unchanged and the return value points to a string like  "unknownerror"  or
           "errornumberxxx" (where xxx is the value of errnum).

        3. Combination  of #1 and #2: errno is set to [EINVAL] and the return value points to a string like "unknown‐
           error" or "errornumberxxx" (where xxx is the value of errnum).  Since applications frequently use the  re‐
           turn  value  of  strerror() as an argument to functions like fprintf() (without checking the return value)
           and since applications have no way to parse an error message string to determine whether errnum represents
           a valid error number, implementations are encouraged to implement #3. Similarly, implementations  are  en‐
           couraged  to have strerror_r() return [EINVAL] and put a string like "unknownerror" or "errornumberxxx" in
           the buffer pointed to by strerrbuf when the value of errnum is not a valid error number.

       Some applications rely on being able to set errno to 0 before calling a function with no reserved value to in‐
       dicate an error, then call strerror(errno) afterwards to detect  whether  an  error  occurred  (because  errno
       changed)  or  to  indicate success (because errno remained zero). This usage pattern requires that strerror(0)
       succeed with useful results. Previous versions of the standard did not specify the  behavior  when  errnum  is
       zero.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       perror()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <string.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            STRERROR(3P)
