STRINGS(1P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   STRINGS(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       strings — find printable strings in files

SYNOPSIS
       strings [−a] [−t format] [−n number] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  strings  utility shall look for printable strings in regular files and shall write those strings to stan‐
       dard output. A printable string is any sequence of four (by default) or more printable  characters  terminated
       by a <newline> or NUL character. Additional implementation-defined strings may be written; see localedef.

       If the first argument is '−', the results are unspecified.

OPTIONS
       The strings utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines, except for the unspecified usage of '−'.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −a        Scan  files  in their entirety. If −a is not specified, it is implementation-defined what portion of
                 each file is scanned for strings.

       −n number Specify the minimum string length, where the number argument is a positive decimal integer. The  de‐
                 fault shall be 4.

       −t format Write each string preceded by its byte offset from the start of the file. The format shall be depen‐
                 dent on the single character used as the format option-argument:

                 d     The offset shall be written in decimal.

                 o     The offset shall be written in octal.

                 x     The offset shall be written in hexadecimal.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of a regular file to be used as input. If no file operand is specified, the strings util‐
                 ity shall read from the standard input.

STDIN
       See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files named by the utility arguments or the standard input shall be regular files of any format.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of strings:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files) and to  iden‐
                 tify printable strings.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Strings found shall be written to the standard output, one per line.

       When the −t option is not specified, the format of the output shall be:

           "%s", <string>

       With the −t o option, the format of the output shall be:

           "%o %s", <byte offset>, <string>

       With the −t x option, the format of the output shall be:

           "%x %s", <byte offset>, <string>

       With the −t d option, the format of the output shall be:

           "%d %s", <byte offset>, <string>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       By default the data area (as opposed to the text, ``bss'', or header areas) of a  binary  executable  file  is
       scanned. Implementations document which areas are scanned.

       Some  historical  implementations do not require NUL or <newline> terminators for strings to permit those lan‐
       guages that do not use NUL as a string terminator to have their strings written.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       Apart from rationalizing the option syntax and slight difficulties with object and  executable  binary  files,
       strings  is  specified  to match historical practice closely. The −a and −n options were introduced to replace
       the non-conforming − and −number options. These options are no longer specified by  POSIX.1‐2008  but  may  be
       present in some implementations.

       The  −o  option historically means different things on different implementations. Some use it to mean ``offset
       in decimal'', while others use it as ``offset in octal''. Instead of trying to decide which way would be least
       objectionable, the −t option was added. It was originally named −O to mean ``offset'', but was changed  to  −t
       to be consistent with od.

       The ISO C standard function isprint() is restricted to a domain of unsigned char.  This volume of POSIX.1‐2008
       requires implementations to write strings as defined by the current locale.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       localedef, nm

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             STRINGS(1P)
