STRIP(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     STRIP(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       strip — remove unnecessary information from strippable files (DEVELOPMENT)

SYNOPSIS
       strip file...

DESCRIPTION
       A  strippable  file  is  defined  as  a relocatable, object, or executable file.  On XSI-conformant systems, a
       strippable file can also be an archive of object or relocatable files.

       The strip utility shall remove from strippable files named by the file operands any information the  implemen‐
       tor  deems unnecessary for execution of those files. The nature of that information is unspecified. The effect
       of strip on object and executable files shall be similar to the use of the −s option to c99  or  fort77.   The
       effect  of  strip  on an archive of object files shall be similar to the use of the −s option to c99 or fort77
       for each object file in the archive.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname referring to a strippable file.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       The input files shall be in the form of strippable files successfully produced by any compiler defined by this
       volume of POSIX.1‐2008 or produced by creating or updating an archive of such files using the ar utility.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of strip:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The strip utility shall produce strippable files of unspecified format.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       Historically, this utility has been used to remove the symbol table from a strippable file.  It  was  included
       since  it is known that the amount of symbolic information can amount to several megabytes; the ability to re‐
       move it in a portable manner was deemed important, especially for smaller systems.

       The behavior of strip on object and executable files is said to be the same as the −s option  to  a  compiler.
       While the end result is essentially the same, it is not required to be identical.

       XSI-conformant systems support use of strip on archive files containing object files or relocatable files.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       ar, c99, fort77

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               STRIP(1P)
