STRNCPY(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   STRNCPY(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       stpncpy, strncpy — copy fixed length string, returning a pointer to the array end

SYNOPSIS
       #include <string.h>

       char *stpncpy(char *restrict s1, const char *restrict s2, size_t n);
       char *strncpy(char *restrict s1, const char *restrict s2, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       For strncpy(): The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict  between  the  requirements  described  here  and  the  ISO C  standard is unintentional. This volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The stpncpy() and strncpy() functions shall copy not more than n bytes (bytes that follow a NUL character  are
       not copied) from the array pointed to by s2 to the array pointed to by s1.

       If  the  array  pointed to by s2 is a string that is shorter than n bytes, NUL characters shall be appended to
       the copy in the array pointed to by s1, until n bytes in all are written.

       If copying takes place between objects that overlap, the behavior is undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       If a NUL character is written to the destination, the stpncpy() function shall return the address of the first
       such NUL character.  Otherwise, it shall return &s1[n].

       The strncpy() function shall return s1.

       No return values are reserved to indicate an error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Applications must provide the space in s1 for the n bytes to be transferred, as well as ensure that the s2 and
       s1 arrays do not overlap.

       Character movement is performed differently in different implementations. Thus, overlapping  moves  may  yield
       surprises.

       If  there is no NUL character byte in the first n bytes of the array pointed to by s2, the result is not null-
       terminated.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       strcpy(), wcsncpy()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <string.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             STRNCPY(3P)
