STRSIGNAL(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 STRSIGNAL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       strsignal — get name of signal

SYNOPSIS
       #include <string.h>

       char *strsignal(int signum);

DESCRIPTION
       The  strsignal()  function shall map the signal number in signum to an implementation-defined string and shall
       return a pointer to it.  It shall use the same set of messages as the psignal() function.

       The application shall not modify the string returned. The returned pointer might be invalidated or the  string
       content might be overwritten by a subsequent call to strsignal() or setlocale().

       The contents of the message strings returned by strsignal() should be determined by the setting of the LC_MES‐
       SAGES category in the current locale.

       The implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this standard calls strsignal().

       Since  no  return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application wishing to check for error situations
       should set errno to 0, then call strsignal(), then check errno.

       The strsignal() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, strsignal() shall return a pointer to a string. Otherwise,  if  signum  is  not  a
       valid signal number, the return value is unspecified.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       If  signum  is  not  a valid signal number, some implementations return NULL, while for others the strsignal()
       function returns a pointer to  a  string  containing  an  unspecified  message  denoting  an  unknown  signal.
       POSIX.1‐2008 leaves this return value unspecified.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       psiginfo(), setlocale()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <string.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           STRSIGNAL(3P)
