STRTOL(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    STRTOL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       strtol, strtoll — convert a string to a long integer

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       long strtol(const char *restrict str, char **restrict endptr, int base);
       long long strtoll(const char *restrict str, char **restrict endptr,
           int base)

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall convert the initial portion of the string pointed to by str to a type long and long long
       representation, respectively. First, they decompose the input string into three parts:

        1. An initial, possibly empty, sequence of white-space characters (as specified by isspace())

        2. A subject sequence interpreted as an integer represented in some radix determined by the value of base

        3. A final string of one or more unrecognized characters, including the terminating NUL character of the  in‐
           put string.

       Then they shall attempt to convert the subject sequence to an integer, and return the result.

       If the value of base is 0, the expected form of the subject sequence is that of a decimal constant, octal con‐
       stant,  or  hexadecimal constant, any of which may be preceded by a '+' or '−' sign. A decimal constant begins
       with a non-zero digit, and consists of a sequence of decimal digits. An octal constant consists of the  prefix
       '0'  optionally  followed  by a sequence of the digits '0' to '7' only. A hexadecimal constant consists of the
       prefix 0x or 0X followed by a sequence of the decimal digits and letters 'a' (or 'A') to  'f'  (or  'F')  with
       values 10 to 15 respectively.

       If  the  value of base is between 2 and 36, the expected form of the subject sequence is a sequence of letters
       and digits representing an integer with the radix specified by base, optionally preceded by a '+' or '−' sign.
       The letters from 'a' (or 'A') to 'z' (or 'Z') inclusive are ascribed the values 10 to 35; only  letters  whose
       ascribed  values are less than that of base are permitted. If the value of base is 16, the characters 0x or 0X
       may optionally precede the sequence of letters and digits, following the sign if present.

       The subject sequence is defined as the longest initial subsequence of the  input  string,  starting  with  the
       first non-white-space character that is of the expected form. The subject sequence shall contain no characters
       if  the  input string is empty or consists entirely of white-space characters, or if the first non-white-space
       character is other than a sign or a permissible letter or digit.

       If the subject sequence has the expected form and the value of base is 0, the sequence of characters  starting
       with  the  first  digit  shall be interpreted as an integer constant. If the subject sequence has the expected
       form and the value of base is between 2 and 36, it shall be used as the base for conversion, ascribing to each
       letter its value as given above. If the subject sequence begins with a minus-sign, the  value  resulting  from
       the  conversion  shall  be  negated. A pointer to the final string shall be stored in the object pointed to by
       endptr, provided that endptr is not a null pointer.

       In other than the C or POSIX locales, other implementation-defined subject sequences may be accepted.

       If the subject sequence is empty or does not have the expected form, no conversion is performed; the value  of
       str shall be stored in the object pointed to by endptr, provided that endptr is not a null pointer.

       These functions shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       Since 0, {LONG_MIN} or {LLONG_MIN}, and {LONG_MAX} or {LLONG_MAX} are returned on error and are also valid re‐
       turns  on  success, an application wishing to check for error situations should set errno to 0, then call str‐
       tol() or strtoll(), then check errno.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, these functions shall return the converted value, if any. If no  conversion  could
       be performed, 0 shall be returned and errno may be set to [EINVAL].

       If the value of base is not supported, 0 shall be returned and errno shall be set to [EINVAL].

       If  the  correct  value  is outside the range of representable values, {LONG_MIN}, {LONG_MAX}, {LLONG_MIN}, or
       {LLONG_MAX} shall be returned (according to the sign of the value), and errno set to [ERANGE].

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of base is not supported.

       ERANGE The value to be returned is not representable.

       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL No conversion could be performed.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Since the value of *endptr is unspecified if the value of base is not supported,  applications  should  either
       ensure that base has a supported value (0 or between 2 and 36) before the call, or check for an [EINVAL] error
       before examining *endptr.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fscanf(), isalpha(), strtod()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              STRTOL(3P)
