STRXFRM(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   STRXFRM(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       strxfrm, strxfrm_l — string transformation

SYNOPSIS
       #include <string.h>

       size_t strxfrm(char *restrict s1, const char *restrict s2, size_t n);
       size_t strxfrm_l(char *restrict s1, const char *restrict s2,
           size_t n, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For strxfrm(): The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict  between  the  requirements  described  here  and  the  ISO C  standard is unintentional. This volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The strxfrm() and strxfrm_l() functions shall transform the string pointed to by s2 and  place  the  resulting
       string  into the array pointed to by s1.  The transformation is such that if strcmp() is applied to two trans‐
       formed strings, it shall return a value greater than, equal to, or less than 0, corresponding to the result of
       strcoll() or strcoll_l(), respectively, applied to the same two original strings with  the  same  locale.   No
       more  than n bytes are placed into the resulting array pointed to by s1, including the terminating NUL charac‐
       ter. If n is 0, s1 is permitted to be a null pointer. If copying takes place between objects that overlap, the
       behavior is undefined.

       The strxfrm() and strxfrm_l() functions shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       Since no return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application wishing to check for  error  situations
       should set errno to 0, then call strxfrm() or strxfrm_l(), then check errno.

       The  behavior is undefined if the locale argument to strxfrm_l() is the special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
       or is not a valid locale object handle.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, strxfrm() and strxfrm_l() shall return the length of the transformed  string  (not
       including  the  terminating  NUL  character).  If  the  value returned is n or more, the contents of the array
       pointed to by s1 are unspecified.

       On error, strxfrm() and strxfrm_l() may set errno but no return value is reserved to indicate an error.

ERRORS
       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL The string pointed to by the s2 argument contains characters outside the domain of  the  collating  se‐
              quence.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  transformation function is such that two transformed strings can be ordered by strcmp() as appropriate to
       collating sequence information in the current locale (category LC_COLLATE).

       The fact that when n is 0 s1 is permitted to be a null pointer is useful to determine the size of the s1 array
       prior to making the transformation.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       strcmp(), strcoll()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <string.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             STRXFRM(3P)
