SWAB(3P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      SWAB(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       swab — swap bytes

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       void swab(const void *restrict src, void *restrict dest,
           ssize_t nbytes);

DESCRIPTION
       The  swab()  function  shall copy nbytes bytes, which are pointed to by src, to the object pointed to by dest,
       exchanging adjacent bytes. The nbytes argument should be even. If nbytes is odd, swab() copies  and  exchanges
       nbytes−1  bytes  and  the  disposition of the last byte is unspecified. If copying takes place between objects
       that overlap, the behavior is undefined.  If nbytes is negative, swab() does nothing.

RETURN VALUE
       None.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                SWAB(3P)
