SYMLINK(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   SYMLINK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       symlink, symlinkat — make a symbolic link relative to directory file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int symlink(const char *path1, const char *path2);
       int symlinkat(const char *path1, int fd, const char *path2);

DESCRIPTION
       The  symlink() function shall create a symbolic link called path2 that contains the string pointed to by path1
       (path2 is the name of the symbolic link created, path1 is the string contained in the symbolic link).

       The string pointed to by path1 shall be treated only as a character string and shall not  be  validated  as  a
       pathname.

       If the symlink() function fails for any reason other than [EIO], any file named by path2 shall be unaffected.

       If path2 names a symbolic link, symlink() shall fail and set errno to [EEXIST].

       The symbolic link's user ID shall be set to the process' effective user ID. The symbolic link's group ID shall
       be  set  to  the group ID of the parent directory or to the effective group ID of the process. Implementations
       shall provide a way to initialize the symbolic link's group ID to the group ID of the parent directory. Imple‐
       mentations may, but need not, provide an implementation-defined way to initialize the symbolic link's group ID
       to the effective group ID of the calling process.

       The values of the file mode bits for the created symbolic link are unspecified. All  interfaces  specified  by
       POSIX.1‐2008  shall  behave  as if the contents of symbolic links can always be read, except that the value of
       the file mode bits returned in the st_mode field of the stat structure is unspecified.

       Upon successful completion, symlink() shall mark for update the last data access, last data modification,  and
       last file status change timestamps of the symbolic link. Also, the last data modification and last file status
       change timestamps of the directory that contains the new entry shall be marked for update.

       The  symlinkat()  function shall be equivalent to the symlink() function except in the case where path2 speci‐
       fies a relative path. In this case the symbolic link is created relative to the directory associated with  the
       file  descriptor  fd  instead  of  the  current  working  directory. If the file descriptor was opened without
       O_SEARCH, the function shall check whether directory searches are permitted using the current  permissions  of
       the  directory  underlying  the file descriptor. If the file descriptor was opened with O_SEARCH, the function
       shall not perform the check.

       If symlinkat() is passed the special value AT_FDCWD in the fd parameter, the current working  directory  shall
       be used and the behavior shall be identical to a call to symlink().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  these functions shall return 0.  Otherwise, these functions shall return −1 and
       set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EACCES Write permission is denied in the directory where the symbolic link is being created, or search permis‐
              sion is denied for a component of the path prefix of path2.

       EEXIST The path2 argument names an existing file.

       EIO    An I/O error occurs while reading from or writing to the file system.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path2 argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of the pathname specified by the path2 argument is longer than {NAME_MAX}  or
              the length of the path1 argument is longer than {SYMLINK_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of the path prefix of path2 does not name an existing file or path2 is an empty string.

       ENOSPC The  directory  in which the entry for the new symbolic link is being placed cannot be extended because
              no space is left on the file system containing the directory, or the new symbolic link cannot  be  cre‐
              ated  because  no  space is left on the file system which shall contain the link, or the file system is
              out of file-allocation resources.

       ENOTDIR
              A component of the path prefix of path2 names an existing file that is neither a directory nor  a  sym‐
              bolic link to a directory.

       EROFS  The new symbolic link would reside on a read-only file system.

       The symlinkat() function shall fail if:

       EACCES fd was not opened with O_SEARCH and the permissions of the directory underlying fd do not permit direc‐
              tory searches.

       EBADF  The  path2  argument  does  not  specify an absolute path and the fd argument is neither AT_FDCWD nor a
              valid file descriptor open for reading or searching.

       ENOTDIR
              The path2 argument is not an absolute path and fd is a file descriptor associated with a  non-directory
              file.

       These functions may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path2 argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The  length  of  the path2 argument exceeds {PATH_MAX} or pathname resolution of a symbolic link in the
              path2 argument produced an intermediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Like a hard link, a symbolic link allows a file to have multiple logical names. The presence of  a  hard  link
       guarantees the existence of a file, even after the original name has been removed. A symbolic link provides no
       such  assurance; in fact, the file named by the path1 argument need not exist when the link is created. A sym‐
       bolic link can cross file system boundaries.

       Normal permission checks are made on each component of the symbolic link pathname during its resolution.

RATIONALE
       The purpose of the symlinkat() function is to create symbolic links in  directories  other  than  the  current
       working directory without exposure to race conditions. Any part of the path of a file could be changed in par‐
       allel  to  a call to symlink(), resulting in unspecified behavior. By opening a file descriptor for the target
       directory and using the symlinkat() function it can be guaranteed that the created symbolic  link  is  located
       relative to the desired directory.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fdopendir(), fstatat(), lchown(), link(), open(), readlink(), rename(), unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             SYMLINK(3P)
