TABS(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      TABS(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tabs — set terminal tabs

SYNOPSIS
       tabs [−n|−a|−a2|−c|−c2|−c3|−f|−p|−s|−u] [−T type]

       tabs [−T type] n[[sep[+]n]...]

DESCRIPTION
       The tabs utility shall display a series of characters that first clears the hardware terminal tab settings and
       then initializes the tab stops at the specified positions and optionally adjusts the margin.

       The phrase ``tab-stop position N'' shall be taken to mean that, from the start of a line of output, tabbing to
       position  N shall cause the next character output to be in the (N+1)th column position on that line. The maxi‐
       mum number of tab stops allowed is terminal-dependent.

       It need not be possible to implement tabs on certain terminals. If the terminal type obtained  from  the  TERM
       environment variable or −T option represents such a terminal, an appropriate diagnostic message shall be writ‐
       ten to standard error and tabs shall exit with a status greater than zero.

OPTIONS
       The  tabs  utility  shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines, except for various extensions: the options −a2, −c2, and −c3 are multi-character.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −n        Specify repetitive tab stops separated by a uniform number of column positions, n, where n is a sin‐
                 gle-digit decimal number. The default usage of tabs with no arguments shall be  equivalent  to  tabs
                 −8. When −0 is used, the tab stops shall be cleared and no new ones set.

       −a        1,10,16,36,72
                 Assembler, applicable to some mainframes.

       −a2       1,10,16,40,72
                 Assembler, applicable to some mainframes.

       −c        1,8,12,16,20,55
                 COBOL, normal format.

       −c2       1,6,10,14,49
                 COBOL, compact format (columns 1 to 6 omitted).

       −c3       1,6,10,14,18,22,26,30,34,38,42,46,50,54,58,62,67
                 COBOL compact format (columns 1 to 6 omitted), with more tabs than −c2.

       −f        1,7,11,15,19,23
                 FORTRAN

       −p        1,5,9,13,17,21,25,29,33,37,41,45,49,53,57,61
                 PL/1

       −s        1,10,55
                 SNOBOL

       −u        1,12,20,44
                 Assembler, applicable to some mainframes.

       −T type   Indicate  the  type  of  terminal.  If this option is not supplied and the TERM variable is unset or
                 null, an unspecified default terminal type shall be used. The setting of type shall take  precedence
                 over the value in TERM.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       n[[sep[+]n]...]
                 A single command line argument that consists of one or more tab-stop values (n) separated by a sepa‐
                 rator character (sep) which is either a <comma> or a <blank> character. The application shall ensure
                 that  the tab-stop values are positive decimal integers in strictly ascending order. If any tab-stop
                 value (except the first one) is preceded by a <plus-sign>, it is taken as an increment to  be  added
                 to  the  previous  value. For example, the tab lists 1,10,20,30 and "110+10+10" are considered to be
                 identical.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of tabs:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       TERM      Determine the terminal type. If this variable is unset or null, and if the −T option is  not  speci‐
                 fied, an unspecified default terminal type shall be used.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       If  standard  output  is a terminal, the appropriate sequence to clear and set the tab stops may be written to
       standard output in an unspecified format. If standard output is not a terminal, undefined results occur.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       This utility makes use of the terminal's hardware tabs and the stty tabs option.

       This utility is not recommended for application use.

       Some integrated display units might not have escape sequences to set tab stops, but may  be  set  by  internal
       system  calls. On these terminals, tabs works if standard output is directed to the terminal; if output is di‐
       rected to another file, however, tabs fails.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       Consideration was given to having the tput utility handle all of the functions described  in  tabs.   However,
       the  separate  tabs utility was retained because it seems more intuitive to use a command named tabs than tput
       with a new option. The tput utility does not support setting or clearing tabs, and no known historical version
       of tabs supports the capability of setting arbitrary tab stops.

       The System V tabs interface is very complex; the version in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 has a reduced  feature
       list,  but many of the features omitted were restored as part of the XSI option even though the supported lan‐
       guages and coding styles are primarily historical.

       There was considerable sentiment for specifying only a means of resetting the tabs back to a known  state—pre‐
       sumably the ``standard'' of tabs every eight positions. The following features were omitted:

        *  Setting  tab stops via the first line in a file, using −−file.  Since even the SVID has no complete expla‐
           nation of this feature, it is doubtful that it is in widespread use.

       In an early proposal, a −t tablist option was added for consistency with expand; this was later  removed  when
       inconsistencies with the historical list of tabs were identified.

       Consideration was given to adding a −p option that would output the current tab settings so that they could be
       saved  and  then later restored. This was not accepted because querying the tab stops of the terminal is not a
       capability in historical terminfo or termcap facilities and might not be supported on a wide range  of  termi‐
       nals.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       expand, stty, tput, unexpand

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                TABS(1P)
