TAIL(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      TAIL(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tail — copy the last part of a file

SYNOPSIS
       tail [−f] [−c number|−n number] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       The tail utility shall copy its input file to the standard output beginning at a designated place.

       Copying shall begin at the point in the file indicated by the −c number or −n number options. The option-argu‐
       ment  number  shall  be counted in units of lines or bytes, according to the options −n and −c.  Both line and
       byte counts start from 1.

       Tails relative to the end of the file may be saved in an internal buffer, and thus may be limited  in  length.
       Such a buffer, if any, shall be no smaller than {LINE_MAX}*10 bytes.

OPTIONS
       The  tail  utility  shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines, except that '+' may be recognized as an option delimiter as well as '−'.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −c number The application shall ensure that the number option-argument is a decimal  integer,  optionally  in‐
                 cluding  a  sign.   The  sign shall affect the location in the file, measured in bytes, to begin the
                 copying:
                                          ┌──────┬────────────────────────────────────────┐
                                          │ Sign │             Copying Starts             │
                                          ├──────┼────────────────────────────────────────┤
                                          │  +   │ Relative to the beginning of the file. │
                                          │  −   │ Relative to the end of the file.       │
                                          │ none │ Relative to the end of the file.       │
                                          └──────┴────────────────────────────────────────┘

                 The application shall ensure that if the sign of the number option-argument is '+', the  number  op‐
                 tion-argument is a non-zero decimal integer.

                 The  origin for counting shall be 1; that is, −c +1 represents the first byte of the file, −c −1 the
                 last.

       −f        If the input file is a regular file or if the file operand specifies a FIFO, do not terminate  after
                 the last line of the input file has been copied, but read and copy further bytes from the input file
                 when  they  become  available. If no file operand is specified and standard input is a pipe or FIFO,
                 the −f option shall be ignored. If the input file is not a FIFO, pipe, or regular file,  it  is  un‐
                 specified whether or not the −f option shall be ignored.

       −n number This option shall be equivalent to −c number, except the starting location in the file shall be mea‐
                 sured  in  lines instead of bytes. The origin for counting shall be 1; that is, −n +1 represents the
                 first line of the file, −n −1 the last.

       If neither −c nor −n is specified, −n 10 shall be assumed.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of an input file. If no file operand is specified, the standard input shall be used.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used if no file operand is specified, and shall be used if the file operand is '−'
       and the implementation treats the '−' as meaning standard input.  Otherwise, the standard input shall  not  be
       used.  See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       If the −c option is specified, the input file can contain arbitrary data; otherwise, the input file shall be a
       text file.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of tail:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The designated portion of the input file shall be written to standard output.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  −c  option should be used with caution when the input is a text file containing multi-byte characters; it
       may produce output that does not start on a character boundary.

       Although the input file to tail can be any type, the results might not be what would be expected on some char‐
       acter special device files or on file types not described by the System  Interfaces  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008.
       Since  this  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008 does not specify the block size used when doing input, tail need not read
       all of the data from devices that only perform block transfers.

EXAMPLES
       The −f option can be used to monitor the growth of a file that is being written by some other process. For ex‐
       ample, the command:

           tail −f fred

       prints the last ten lines of the file fred, followed by any lines that are appended to fred between  the  time
       tail is initiated and killed. As another example, the command:

           tail −f −c 15 fred

       prints  the  last  15 bytes of the file fred, followed by any bytes that are appended to fred between the time
       tail is initiated and killed.

RATIONALE
       This version of tail was created to allow conformance to the Utility Syntax Guidelines. The historical −b  op‐
       tion  was  omitted because of the general non-portability of block-sized units of text. The −c option histori‐
       cally meant ``characters'', but this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 indicates that it means ``bytes''.  This  was  se‐
       lected  to  allow  reasonable  implementations when multi-byte characters are possible; it was not named −b to
       avoid confusion with the historical −b.

       The origin of counting both lines and bytes is 1, matching all widespread  historical  implementations.  Hence
       tail  −n +0 is not conforming usage because it attempts to output line zero; but note that tail −n 0 does con‐
       form, and outputs nothing.

       Earlier versions of this standard allowed the following forms in the SYNOPSIS:

           tail −[number][b|c|l][f] [file]
           tail +[number][b|c|l][f] [file]

       These forms are no longer specified by POSIX.1‐2008, but may be present in some implementations.

       The restriction on the internal buffer is a compromise between the historical System V implementation of  4096
       bytes and the BSD 32768 bytes.

       The −f option has been implemented as a loop that sleeps for 1 second and copies any bytes that are available.
       This  is  sufficient,  but if more efficient methods of determining when new data are available are developed,
       implementations are encouraged to use them.

       Historical documentation indicates that tail ignores the −f option if the input file is a pipe (pipe and  FIFO
       on  systems that support FIFOs). On BSD-based systems, this has been true; on System V-based systems, this was
       true when input was taken from standard input, but it did not ignore the −f flag if a FIFO was  named  as  the
       file  operand.  Since  the −f option is not useful on pipes and all historical implementations ignore −f if no
       file operand is specified and standard input is a pipe, this volume of POSIX.1‐2008  requires  this  behavior.
       However,  since the −f option is useful on a FIFO, this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 also requires that if a FIFO is
       named, the −f option shall not be ignored. Earlier versions of this standard did not state any requirement for
       the case where no file operand is specified and standard input is a FIFO. The standard has been updated to re‐
       flect current practice which is to treat this case the same as a pipe on standard input.  Although  historical
       behavior  does  not ignore the −f option for other file types, this is unspecified so that implementations are
       allowed to ignore the −f option if it is known that the file cannot be extended.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       head

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                TAIL(1P)
