TALK(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      TALK(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       talk — talk to another user

SYNOPSIS
       talk address [terminal]

DESCRIPTION
       The talk utility is a two-way, screen-oriented communication program.

       When first invoked, talk shall send a message similar to:

           Message from <unspecified string>
           talk: connection requested by your_address
           talk: respond with: talk your_address

       to the specified address.  At this point, the recipient of the message can reply by typing:

           talk your_address

       Once  communication  is  established,  the two parties can type simultaneously, with their output displayed in
       separate regions of the screen. Characters shall be processed as follows:

        *  Typing the <alert> character shall alert the recipient's terminal.

        *  Typing <control>‐L shall cause the sender's screen regions to be refreshed.

        *  Typing the erase and kill characters shall affect the sender's terminal in the  manner  described  by  the
           termios interface in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface.

        *  Typing  the interrupt or end-of-file characters shall terminate the local talk utility. Once the talk ses‐
           sion has been terminated on one side, the other side of the talk session shall be notified that  the  talk
           session has been terminated and shall be able to do nothing except exit.

        *  Typing  characters from LC_CTYPE classifications print or space shall cause those characters to be sent to
           the recipient's terminal.

        *  When and only when the stty iexten local mode is enabled, the existence and processing of additional  spe‐
           cial control characters and multi-byte or single-byte functions shall be implementation-defined.

        *  Typing other non-printable characters shall cause implementation-defined sequences of printable characters
           to be sent to the recipient's terminal.

       Permission to be a recipient of a talk message can be denied or granted by use of the mesg utility. However, a
       user's privilege may further constrain the domain of accessibility of other users' terminals. The talk utility
       shall fail when the user lacks appropriate privileges to perform the requested action.

       Certain  block-mode  terminals do not have all the capabilities necessary to support the simultaneous exchange
       of messages required for talk.  When this type of exchange cannot be supported on such terminals,  the  imple‐
       mentation  may  support  an exchange with reduced levels of simultaneous interaction or it may report an error
       describing the terminal-related deficiency.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       address   The recipient of the talk session. One form of address is the <user name>, as returned  by  the  who
                 utility. Other address formats and how they are handled are unspecified.

       terminal  If  the recipient is logged in more than once, the terminal argument can be used to indicate the ap‐
                 propriate terminal name. If terminal is not specified, the talk message shall be displayed on one or
                 more accessible terminals in use by the recipient. The format of terminal shall be the same as  that
                 returned by the who utility.

STDIN
       Characters  read  from standard input shall be copied to the recipient's terminal in an unspecified manner. If
       standard input is not a terminal, talk shall write a diagnostic message and exit with a non-zero status.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of talk:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example,  single-byte  as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files). If the re‐
                 cipient's locale does not use an LC_CTYPE equivalent to the sender's, the results are undefined.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       TERM      Determine the name of the invoker's terminal type. If this variable is unset or null, an unspecified
                 default terminal type shall be used.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       When  the  talk  utility receives a SIGINT signal, the utility shall terminate and exit with a zero status. It
       shall take the standard action for all other signals.

STDOUT
       If standard output is a terminal, characters copied from the recipient's standard  input  may  be  written  to
       standard  output. Standard output also may be used for diagnostic messages. If standard output is not a termi‐
       nal, talk shall exit with a non-zero status.

STDERR
       None.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred or talk was invoked on a terminal incapable of supporting it.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Because the handling of non-printable, non-<space> characters is tied to the stty description of  iexten,  im‐
       plementation extensions within the terminal driver can be accessed.  For example, some implementations provide
       line editing functions with certain control character sequences.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  write  utility  was  included  in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 since it can be implemented on all terminal
       types. The talk utility, which cannot be implemented on certain terminals, was considered to be  a  ``better''
       communications  interface. Both of these programs are in widespread use on historical implementations.  There‐
       fore, both utilities have been specified.

       All references to networking abilities (talking to a user on another system) were removed as being outside the
       scope of this volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

       Historical BSD and System V versions of talk terminate both of the conversations when either user  breaks  out
       of  the  session.  This can lead to adverse consequences if a user unwittingly continues to enter text that is
       interpreted by the shell when the other terminates the session. Therefore, the version of  talk  specified  by
       this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 requires both users to terminate their end of the session explicitly.

       Only messages sent to the terminal of the invoking user can be internationalized in any way:

        *  The original ``Message from <unspecified string> ...''  message sent to the terminal of the recipient can‐
           not be internationalized because the environment of the recipient is as yet inaccessible to the talk util‐
           ity. The environment of the invoking party is irrelevant.

        *  Subsequent  communication  between the two parties cannot be internationalized because the two parties may
           specify different languages in their environment (and non-portable characters cannot be  mapped  from  one
           language to another).

        *  Neither  party can be required to communicate in a language other than C and/or the one specified by their
           environment because unavailable terminal hardware support (for example, fonts) may be required.

       The text in the STDOUT section reflects the usage of the verb ``display'' in this section; some talk implemen‐
       tations actually use standard output to write to the terminal, but this volume of POSIX.1‐2008  does  not  re‐
       quire that to be the case.

       The  format of the terminal name is unspecified, but the descriptions of ps, talk, who, and write require that
       they all use or accept the same format.

       The handling of non-printable characters is partially implementation-defined because the  details  of  mapping
       them  to printable sequences is not needed by the user. Historical implementations, for security reasons, dis‐
       allow the transmission of non-printable characters that may send commands to the other terminal.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mesg, stty, who, write

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Chapter  11,  General  Terminal
       Interface

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                TALK(1P)
