TCFLOW(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    TCFLOW(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcflow — suspend or restart the transmission or reception of data

SYNOPSIS
       #include <termios.h>

       int tcflow(int fildes, int action);

DESCRIPTION
       The  tcflow() function shall suspend or restart transmission or reception of data on the object referred to by
       fildes, depending on the value of action.  The fildes argument is an open file descriptor  associated  with  a
       terminal.

        *  If action is TCOOFF, output shall be suspended.

        *  If action is TCOON, suspended output shall be restarted.

        *  If  action  is  TCIOFF and fildes refers to a terminal device, the system shall transmit a STOP character,
           which is intended to cause the terminal device to stop transmitting data to the system. If fildes is asso‐
           ciated with a pseudo-terminal, the STOP character need not be transmitted.

        *  If action is TCION and fildes refers to a terminal device, the system shall transmit  a  START  character,
           which  is intended to cause the terminal device to start transmitting data to the system. If fildes is as‐
           sociated with a pseudo-terminal, the START character need not be transmitted.

       The default on the opening of a terminal file is that neither its input nor its output are suspended.

       Attempts to use tcflow() from a process which is a member of a background process group on a fildes associated
       with its controlling terminal, shall cause the process group to be sent a  SIGTTOU  signal.   If  the  calling
       thread is blocking SIGTTOU signals or the process is ignoring SIGTTOU signals, the process shall be allowed to
       perform the operation, and no signal is sent.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The tcflow() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL The action argument is not a supported value.

       EIO    The  process  group of the writing process is orphaned, the calling thread is not blocking SIGTTOU, and
              the process is not ignoring SIGTTOU.

       ENOTTY The file associated with fildes is not a terminal.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       tcsendbreak()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface, <termios.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              TCFLOW(3P)
