TCGETATTR(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 TCGETATTR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcgetattr — get the parameters associated with the terminal

SYNOPSIS
       #include <termios.h>

       int tcgetattr(int fildes, struct termios *termios_p);

DESCRIPTION
       The tcgetattr() function shall get the parameters associated with the terminal referred to by fildes and store
       them in the termios structure referenced by termios_p.  The fildes argument is an open file descriptor associ‐
       ated with a terminal.

       The termios_p argument is a pointer to a termios structure.

       The tcgetattr() operation is allowed from any process.

       If  the  terminal  device supports different input and output baud rates, the baud rates stored in the termios
       structure returned by tcgetattr() shall reflect the actual baud rates, even if they are  equal.  If  differing
       baud  rates are not supported, the rate returned as the output baud rate shall be the actual baud rate. If the
       terminal device does not support split baud rates, the input baud rate stored in the termios  structure  shall
       be the output rate (as one of the symbolic values).

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The tcgetattr() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ENOTTY The file associated with fildes is not a terminal.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Care  must  be  taken when changing the terminal attributes. Applications should always do a tcgetattr(), save
       the termios structure values returned, and then do a tcsetattr(), changing only the necessary fields. The  ap‐
       plication  should  use  the  values saved from the tcgetattr() to reset the terminal state whenever it is done
       with the terminal.  This is necessary because terminal attributes apply to the underlying port and not to each
       individual open instance; that is, all processes that have used the terminal see the latest attribute changes.

       A program that uses these functions should be written to catch all signals and take other appropriate  actions
       to ensure that when the program terminates, whether planned or not, the terminal device's state is restored to
       its original state.

       Existing  practice  dealing with error returns when only part of a request can be honored is based on calls to
       the ioctl() function. In historical BSD and System V implementations, the corresponding ioctl()  returns  zero
       if  the  requested actions were semantically correct, even if some of the requested changes could not be made.
       Many existing applications assume this behavior and would no longer work correctly if the  return  value  were
       changed from zero to −1 in this case.

       Note  that  either specification has a problem. When zero is returned, it implies everything succeeded even if
       some of the changes were not made. When −1 is returned, it implies everything failed even though some  of  the
       changes were made.

       Applications  that  need  all  of the requested changes made to work properly should follow tcsetattr() with a
       call to tcgetattr() and compare the appropriate field values.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       tcsetattr()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface, <termios.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           TCGETATTR(3P)
