TCGETPGRP(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 TCGETPGRP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcgetpgrp — get the foreground process group ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t tcgetpgrp(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The  tcgetpgrp() function shall return the value of the process group ID of the foreground process group asso‐
       ciated with the terminal.

       If there is no foreground process group, tcgetpgrp() shall return a value greater than 1 that does  not  match
       the process group ID of any existing process group.

       The  tcgetpgrp()  function  is allowed from a process that is a member of a background process group; however,
       the information may be subsequently changed by a process that is a member of a foreground process group.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, tcgetpgrp() shall return the value of the  process  group  ID  of  the  foreground
       process associated with the terminal. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The tcgetpgrp() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ENOTTY The calling process does not have a controlling terminal, or the file is not the controlling terminal.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       setsid(), setpgid(), tcsetpgrp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           TCGETPGRP(3P)
