TCSETATTR(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 TCSETATTR(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcsetattr — set the parameters associated with the terminal

SYNOPSIS
       #include <termios.h>

       int tcsetattr(int fildes, int optional_actions,
           const struct termios *termios_p);

DESCRIPTION
       The  tcsetattr()  function  shall set the parameters associated with the terminal referred to by the open file
       descriptor fildes (an open file descriptor associated with a terminal) from the termios  structure  referenced
       by termios_p as follows:

        *  If optional_actions is TCSANOW, the change shall occur immediately.

        *  If  optional_actions  is TCSADRAIN, the change shall occur after all output written to fildes is transmit‐
           ted. This function should be used when changing parameters that affect output.

        *  If optional_actions is TCSAFLUSH, the change shall occur after all output written to fildes  is  transmit‐
           ted, and all input so far received but not read shall be discarded before the change is made.

       If the output baud rate stored in the termios structure pointed to by termios_p is the zero baud rate, B0, the
       modem control lines shall no longer be asserted. Normally, this shall disconnect the line.

       If the input baud rate stored in the termios structure pointed to by termios_p is 0, the input baud rate given
       to the hardware is the same as the output baud rate stored in the termios structure.

       The  tcsetattr()  function  shall  return successfully if it was able to perform any of the requested actions,
       even if some of the requested actions could not be performed. It shall set all the attributes that the  imple‐
       mentation supports as requested and leave all the attributes not supported by the implementation unchanged. If
       no  part of the request can be honored, it shall return −1 and set errno to [EINVAL].  If the input and output
       baud rates differ and are a combination that is not supported, neither baud rate shall be  changed.  A  subse‐
       quent  call  to  tcgetattr() shall return the actual state of the terminal device (reflecting both the changes
       made and not made in the previous tcsetattr() call). The tcsetattr() function  shall  not  change  the  values
       found in the termios structure under any circumstances.

       The  effect  of tcsetattr() is undefined if the value of the termios structure pointed to by termios_p was not
       derived from the result of a call to tcgetattr() on fildes; an application should modify only fields and flags
       defined by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 between the call to tcgetattr()  and  tcsetattr(),  leaving  all  other
       fields and flags unmodified.

       No  actions defined by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, other than a call to tcsetattr(), a close of the last file
       descriptor in the system associated with this terminal device, or an open of the first file descriptor in  the
       system associated with this terminal device (using the O_TTY_INIT flag if it is non-zero and the device is not
       a  pseudo-terminal),  shall  cause  any  of  the terminal attributes defined by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 to
       change.

       If tcsetattr() is called from a process which is a member of a background process group on a fildes associated
       with its controlling terminal:

        *  If the calling thread is blocking SIGTTOU signals or the process is ignoring SIGTTOU signals,  the  opera‐
           tion completes normally and no signal is sent.

        *  Otherwise, a SIGTTOU signal shall be sent to the process group.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The tcsetattr() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINTR  A signal interrupted tcsetattr().

       EINVAL The  optional_actions  argument is not a supported value, or an attempt was made to change an attribute
              represented in the termios structure to an unsupported value.

       EIO    The process group of the writing process is orphaned, the calling thread is not blocking  SIGTTOU,  and
              the process is not ignoring SIGTTOU.

       ENOTTY The file associated with fildes is not a terminal.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If  trying to change baud rates, applications should call tcsetattr() then call tcgetattr() in order to deter‐
       mine what baud rates were actually selected.

       In general, there are two reasons for an application to change the parameters associated with a  terminal  de‐
       vice:

        1. The  device already has working parameter settings but the application needs a different behavior, such as
           non-canonical mode instead of canonical mode. The application sets (or clears) only a few flags or  c_cc[]
           values.  Typically, the terminal device in this case is either the controlling terminal for the process or
           a pseudo-terminal.

        2. The device is a modem or similar piece of equipment connected by a serial line, and it was not open before
           the application opened it. In this case, the application needs to initialize all of the parameter settings
           ``from scratch''. However, since the termios structure may include both standard and non-standard  parame‐
           ters,  the  application  cannot  just initialize the whole structure in an arbitrary way (e.g., using mem‐
           set()) as this may cause some of the non-standard parameters to be set incorrectly, resulting in  non-con‐
           forming  behavior of the terminal device. Conversely, the application cannot just set the standard parame‐
           ters, assuming that the non-standard parameters will already have suitable values,  as  the  device  might
           previously have been used with non-conforming parameter settings (and some implementations retain the set‐
           tings  from one use to the next). The solution is to open the terminal device using the O_TTY_INIT flag to
           initialize the terminal device to have conforming parameter settings, obtain those  settings  using  tcge‐
           tattr(), and then set all of the standard parameters to the desired settings.

RATIONALE
       The tcsetattr() function can be interrupted in the following situations:

        *  It is interrupted while waiting for output to drain.

        *  It is called from a process in a background process group and SIGTTOU is caught.

       See also the RATIONALE section in tcgetattr().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       Using  an input baud rate of 0 to set the input rate equal to the output rate may not necessarily be supported
       in a future version of this volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

SEE ALSO
       cfgetispeed(), tcgetattr()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface, <termios.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           TCSETATTR(3P)
