TCSETPGRP(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 TCSETPGRP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcsetpgrp — set the foreground process group ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int tcsetpgrp(int fildes, pid_t pgid_id);

DESCRIPTION
       If  the  process  has a controlling terminal, tcsetpgrp() shall set the foreground process group ID associated
       with the terminal to pgid_id.  The application shall ensure that the file associated with fildes is  the  con‐
       trolling terminal of the calling process and the controlling terminal is currently associated with the session
       of the calling process. The application shall ensure that the value of pgid_id matches a process group ID of a
       process in the same session as the calling process.

       Attempts to use tcsetpgrp() from a process which is a member of a background process group on a fildes associ‐
       ated  with  its controlling terminal shall cause the process group to be sent a SIGTTOU signal. If the calling
       thread is blocking SIGTTOU signals or the process is ignoring SIGTTOU signals, the process shall be allowed to
       perform the operation, and no signal is sent.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The tcsetpgrp() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL This implementation does not support the value in the pgid_id argument.

       EIO    The process group of the writing process is orphaned, the calling thread is not blocking  SIGTTOU,  and
              the process is not ignoring SIGTTOU.

       ENOTTY The  calling process does not have a controlling terminal, or the file is not the controlling terminal,
              or the controlling terminal is no longer associated with the session of the calling process.

       EPERM  The value of pgid_id is a value supported by the implementation, but does not match the  process  group
              ID of a process in the same session as the calling process.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       tcgetpgrp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           TCSETPGRP(3P)
