TCSENDBREAK(3P)                               POSIX Programmer's Manual                               TCSENDBREAK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcsendbreak — send a break for a specific duration

SYNOPSIS
       #include <termios.h>

       int tcsendbreak(int fildes, int duration);

DESCRIPTION
       If  the  terminal  is using asynchronous serial data transmission, tcsendbreak() shall cause transmission of a
       continuous stream of zero-valued bits for a specific duration. If duration is 0, it shall  cause  transmission
       of  zero-valued  bits for at least 0.25 seconds, and not more than 0.5 seconds. If duration is not 0, it shall
       send zero-valued bits for an implementation-defined period of time.

       The fildes argument is an open file descriptor associated with a terminal.

       If the terminal is not using asynchronous serial data transmission, it is implementation-defined  whether  tc‐
       sendbreak() sends data to generate a break condition or returns without taking any action.

       Attempts to use tcsendbreak() from a process which is a member of a background process group on a fildes asso‐
       ciated  with its controlling terminal shall cause the process group to be sent a SIGTTOU signal.  If the call‐
       ing thread is blocking SIGTTOU signals or the process is ignoring SIGTTOU signals, the process  shall  be  al‐
       lowed to perform the operation, and no signal is sent.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       The tcsendbreak() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EIO    The  process  group of the writing process is orphaned, the calling thread is not blocking SIGTTOU, and
              the process is not ignoring SIGTTOU.

       ENOTTY The file associated with fildes is not a terminal.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface, <termios.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                         TCSENDBREAK(3P)
