TEE(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       TEE(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tee — duplicate standard input

SYNOPSIS
       tee [−ai] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  tee  utility  shall  copy standard input to standard output, making a copy in zero or more files. The tee
       utility shall not buffer output.

       If the −a option is not specified, output files shall be written (see Section 1.1.1.4, File Read,  Write,  and
       Creation.

OPTIONS
       The  tee  utility  shall  conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −a        Append the output to the files.

       −i        Ignore the SIGINT signal.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of an output file. If a file operand is '−', it shall refer to a file named −;  implemen‐
                 tations  shall  not  treat  it  as meaning standard output.  Processing of at least 13 file operands
                 shall be supported.

STDIN
       The standard input can be of any type.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of tee:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default, except that if the −i option was specified, SIGINT shall be ignored.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall be a copy of the standard input.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       If any file operands are specified, the standard input shall be copied to each named file.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    The standard input was successfully copied to all output files.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       If a write to any successfully opened file operand fails, writes to other successfully  opened  file  operands
       and  standard  output  shall  continue,  but the exit status shall be non-zero. Otherwise, the default actions
       specified in Section 1.4, Utility Description Defaults apply.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The tee utility is usually used in a pipeline, to make a copy of the output of some utility.

       The file operand is technically optional, but tee is no more useful than cat when none is specified.

EXAMPLES
       Save an unsorted intermediate form of the data in a pipeline:

           ... | tee unsorted | sort > sorted

RATIONALE
       The buffering requirement means that tee is not allowed to use ISO C standard fully buffered or  line-buffered
       writes. It does not mean that tee has to do 1-byte reads followed by 1-byte writes.

       It  should be noted that early versions of BSD ignore any invalid options and accept a single '−' as an alter‐
       native to −i.  They also print a message if unable to open a file:

           "tee: cannot access %s\n", <pathname>

       Historical implementations  ignore  write  errors.  This  is  explicitly  not  permitted  by  this  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008.

       Some  historical  implementations  use O_APPEND when providing append mode; others use the lseek() function to
       seek to the end-of-file after opening the file without O_APPEND. This volume of  POSIX.1‐2008  requires  func‐
       tionality equivalent to using O_APPEND; see Section 1.1.1.4, File Read, Write, and Creation.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 1, Introduction, cat

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, lseek()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 TEE(1P)
