TEMPNAM(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   TEMPNAM(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tempnam — create a name for a temporary file

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       char *tempnam(const char *dir, const char *pfx);

DESCRIPTION
       The tempnam() function shall generate a pathname that may be used for a temporary file.

       The  tempnam()  function  allows the user to control the choice of a directory. The dir argument points to the
       name of the directory in which the file is to be created. If dir is a null pointer or points to a string which
       is not a name for an appropriate directory, the path prefix defined as P_tmpdir in the <stdio.h> header  shall
       be used. If that directory is not accessible, an implementation-defined directory may be used.

       Many  applications  prefer  their temporary files to have certain initial letter sequences in their names. The
       pfx argument should be used for this. This argument may be a null pointer or point to a string of up  to  five
       bytes to be used as the beginning of the filename.

       Some  implementations  of  tempnam() may use tmpnam() internally. On such implementations, if called more than
       {TMP_MAX} times in a single process, the behavior is implementation-defined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, tempnam() shall allocate space for a string, put the generated  pathname  in  that
       space, and return a pointer to it. The pointer shall be suitable for use in a subsequent call to free().  Oth‐
       erwise, it shall return a null pointer and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The tempnam() function shall fail if:

       ENOMEM Insufficient storage space is available.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Generating a Pathname
       The  following example generates a pathname for a temporary file in directory /tmp, with the prefix file.  Af‐
       ter the pathname has been created, the call to free() deallocates the space used to store the pathname.

           #include <stdio.h>
           #include <stdlib.h>
           ...
           const char *directory = "/tmp";
           const char *fileprefix = "file";
           char *file;

           file = tempnam(directory, fileprefix);
           free(file);

APPLICATION USAGE
       This function only creates pathnames. It is the application's responsibility to create and remove  the  files.
       Between the time a pathname is created and the file is opened, it is possible for some other process to create
       a file with the same name. Applications may find tmpfile() more useful.

       Applications  should use the tmpfile(), mkdtemp(), or mkstemp() functions instead of the obsolescent tempnam()
       function.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The tempnam() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       fopen(), free(), mkdtemp(), open(), tmpfile(), tmpnam(), unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             TEMPNAM(3P)
