TIMER_GETOVERRUN(3P)                          POSIX Programmer's Manual                          TIMER_GETOVERRUN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       timer_getoverrun, timer_gettime, timer_settime — per-process timers

SYNOPSIS
       #include <time.h>

       int timer_getoverrun(timer_t timerid);
       int timer_gettime(timer_t timerid, struct itimerspec *value);
       int timer_settime(timer_t timerid, int flags,
           const struct itimerspec *restrict value,
           struct itimerspec *restrict ovalue);

DESCRIPTION
       The  timer_gettime()  function  shall store the amount of time until the specified timer, timerid, expires and
       the reload value of the timer into the space pointed to by the value argument. The  it_value  member  of  this
       structure  shall  contain  the amount of time before the timer expires, or zero if the timer is disarmed. This
       value is returned as the interval until timer expiration, even if the timer was armed with absolute time.  The
       it_interval member of value shall contain the reload value last set by timer_settime().

       The  timer_settime()  function  shall set the time until the next expiration of the timer specified by timerid
       from the it_value member of the value argument and arm the timer if the it_value member of value is  non-zero.
       If  the specified timer was already armed when timer_settime() is called, this call shall reset the time until
       next expiration to the value specified. If the it_value member of value is zero, the timer shall be  disarmed.
       The effect of disarming or resetting a timer with pending expiration notifications is unspecified.

       If  the flag TIMER_ABSTIME is not set in the argument flags, timer_settime() shall behave as if the time until
       next expiration is set to be equal to the interval specified by the it_value member of value.   That  is,  the
       timer shall expire in it_value nanoseconds from when the call is made. If the flag TIMER_ABSTIME is set in the
       argument  flags,  timer_settime()  shall behave as if the time until next expiration is set to be equal to the
       difference between the absolute time specified by the it_value member of value and the current  value  of  the
       clock  associated with timerid.  That is, the timer shall expire when the clock reaches the value specified by
       the it_value member of value.  If the specified time has already passed, the function shall  succeed  and  the
       expiration notification shall be made.

       The  reload value of the timer shall be set to the value specified by the it_interval member of value.  When a
       timer is armed with a non-zero it_interval, a periodic (or repetitive) timer is specified.

       Time values that are between two consecutive non-negative integer multiples of the resolution of the specified
       timer shall be rounded up to the larger multiple of the resolution. Quantization error  shall  not  cause  the
       timer to expire earlier than the rounded time value.

       If  the  argument  ovalue is not NULL, the timer_settime() function shall store, in the location referenced by
       ovalue, a value representing the previous amount of time before the timer would have expired, or zero  if  the
       timer was disarmed, together with the previous timer reload value. Timers shall not expire before their sched‐
       uled time.

       Only  a  single signal shall be queued to the process for a given timer at any point in time. When a timer for
       which a signal is still pending expires, no signal shall be queued, and a timer overrun shall occur.   When  a
       timer expiration signal is delivered to or accepted by a process, the timer_getoverrun() function shall return
       the  timer expiration overrun count for the specified timer. The overrun count returned contains the number of
       extra timer expirations that occurred between the time the signal was generated (queued) and when it  was  de‐
       livered  or  accepted,  up to but not including an implementation-defined maximum of {DELAYTIMER_MAX}.  If the
       number of such extra expirations is greater than or equal to {DELAYTIMER_MAX}, then the overrun count shall be
       set to {DELAYTIMER_MAX}.  The value returned by timer_getoverrun() shall apply to the most  recent  expiration
       signal delivery or acceptance for the timer. If no expiration signal has been delivered for the timer, the re‐
       turn value of timer_getoverrun() is unspecified.

RETURN VALUE
       If  the  timer_getoverrun() function succeeds, it shall return the timer expiration overrun count as explained
       above.

       If the timer_gettime() or timer_settime() functions succeed, a value of 0 shall be returned.

       If an error occurs for any of these functions, the value −1 shall be returned, and errno set to  indicate  the
       error.

ERRORS
       The timer_settime() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL A value structure specified a nanosecond value less than zero or greater than or equal to 1000 million,
              and the it_value member of that structure did not specify zero seconds and nanoseconds.

       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL The  timerid  argument  does  not correspond to an ID returned by timer_create() but not yet deleted by
              timer_delete().

       The timer_settime() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The it_interval member of value is not zero and the timer was created with notification by creation  of
              a new thread (sigev_sigev_notify was SIGEV_THREAD) and a fixed stack address has been set in the thread
              attribute pointed to by sigev_notify_attributes.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Using  fixed stack addresses is problematic when timer expiration is signaled by the creation of a new thread.
       Since it cannot be assumed that the thread created for one expiration is finished before the  next  expiration
       of  the  timer,  it could happen that two threads use the same memory as a stack at the same time. This is in‐
       valid and produces undefined results.

RATIONALE
       Practical clocks tick at a finite rate, with rates of 100 hertz and 1000 hertz being common.  The  inverse  of
       this  tick  rate is the clock resolution, also called the clock granularity, which in either case is expressed
       as a time duration, being 10 milliseconds and 1 millisecond respectively for these common rates. The granular‐
       ity of practical clocks implies that if one reads a given clock twice in rapid succession,  one  may  get  the
       same  time  value  twice;  and  that timers must wait for the next clock tick after the theoretical expiration
       time, to ensure that a timer never returns too soon. Note also that the granularity of the clock may  be  sig‐
       nificantly  coarser  than the resolution of the data format used to set and get time and interval values. Also
       note that some implementations may choose to adjust time and/or interval values to exactly match the ticks  of
       the underlying clock.

       This  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008 defines functions that allow an application to determine the implementation-sup‐
       ported resolution for the clocks and requires an implementation  to  document  the  resolution  supported  for
       timers and nanosleep() if they differ from the supported clock resolution. This is more of a procurement issue
       than a runtime application issue.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       clock_getres(), timer_create()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                    TIMER_GETOVERRUN(3P)
