TIMER_CREATE(3P)                              POSIX Programmer's Manual                              TIMER_CREATE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       timer_create — create a per-process timer

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>
       #include <time.h>

       int timer_create(clockid_t clockid, struct sigevent *restrict evp,
           timer_t *restrict timerid);

DESCRIPTION
       The  timer_create() function shall create a per-process timer using the specified clock, clock_id, as the tim‐
       ing base. The timer_create() function shall return, in the location referenced by timerid, a timer ID of  type
       timer_t used to identify the timer in timer requests. This timer ID shall be unique within the calling process
       until the timer is deleted. The particular clock, clock_id, is defined in <time.h>.  The timer whose ID is re‐
       turned shall be in a disarmed state upon return from timer_create().

       The  evp  argument, if non-NULL, points to a sigevent structure. This structure, allocated by the application,
       defines the asynchronous notification to occur as specified in Section 2.4.1, Signal Generation  and  Delivery
       when  the  timer  expires.  If  the  evp  argument  is NULL, the effect is as if the evp argument pointed to a
       sigevent structure with the sigev_notify member having the value SIGEV_SIGNAL, the sigev_signo  having  a  de‐
       fault signal number, and the sigev_value member having the value of the timer ID.

       Each  implementation shall define a set of clocks that can be used as timing bases for per-process timers. All
       implementations shall support a clock_id of CLOCK_REALTIME.  If the Monotonic Clock option is  supported,  im‐
       plementations shall support a clock_id of CLOCK_MONOTONIC.

       Per-process timers shall not be inherited by a child process across a fork() and shall be disarmed and deleted
       by an exec.

       If _POSIX_CPUTIME is defined, implementations shall support clock_id values representing the CPU-time clock of
       the calling process.

       If  _POSIX_THREAD_CPUTIME  is defined, implementations shall support clock_id values representing the CPU-time
       clock of the calling thread.

       It is implementation-defined whether a timer_create() function will succeed if the value defined  by  clock_id
       corresponds  to  the  CPU-time  clock of a process or thread different from the process or thread invoking the
       function.

       If evp->sigev_sigev_notify is SIGEV_THREAD and sev->sigev_notify_attributes is  not  NULL,  if  the  attribute
       pointed to by sev->sigev_notify_attributes has a thread stack address specified by a call to pthread_attr_set‐
       stack(), the results are unspecified if the signal is generated more than once.

RETURN VALUE
       If  the  call  succeeds,  timer_create()  shall return zero and update the location referenced by timerid to a
       timer_t, which can be passed to the per-process timer calls. If an error occurs, the function shall  return  a
       value of −1 and set errno to indicate the error. The value of timerid is undefined if an error occurs.

ERRORS
       The timer_create() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN The system lacks sufficient signal queuing resources to honor the request.

       EAGAIN The calling process has already created all of the timers it is allowed by this implementation.

       EINVAL The specified clock ID is not defined.

       ENOTSUP
              The  implementation  does  not  support  the creation of a timer attached to the CPU-time clock that is
              specified by clock_id and associated with a process or thread different from the process or thread  in‐
              voking timer_create().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If  a  timer  is created which has evp->sigev_sigev_notify set to SIGEV_THREAD and the attribute pointed to by
       evp->sigev_notify_attributes has a thread stack address specified by a call  to  pthread_attr_setstack(),  the
       memory dedicated as a thread stack cannot be recovered. The reason for this is that the threads created in re‐
       sponse  to a timer expiration are created detached, or in an unspecified way if the thread attribute's detach‐
       state is PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE. In neither case is it valid to call pthread_join(), which makes it  impossi‐
       ble to determine the lifetime of the created thread which thus means the stack memory cannot be reused.

RATIONALE
   Periodic Timer Overrun and Resource Allocation
       The  specified timer facilities may deliver realtime signals (that is, queued signals) on implementations that
       support this option. Since realtime applications cannot afford to lose notifications of  asynchronous  events,
       like  timer  expirations  or  asynchronous  I/O completions, it must be possible to ensure that sufficient re‐
       sources exist to deliver the signal when the event occurs. In general, this is not a difficulty because  there
       is a one-to-one correspondence between a request and a subsequent signal generation. If the request cannot al‐
       locate the signal delivery resources, it can fail the call with an [EAGAIN] error.

       Periodic  timers  are  a special case. A single request can generate an unspecified number of signals. This is
       not a problem if the requesting process can service the signals as fast as they are generated, thus making the
       signal delivery resources available for delivery of subsequent periodic timer expiration signals. But, in gen‐
       eral, this cannot be assured—processing of periodic timer signals may ``overrun''; that is,  subsequent  peri‐
       odic timer expirations may occur before the currently pending signal has been delivered.

       Also,  for  signals, according to the POSIX.1‐1990 standard, if subsequent occurrences of a pending signal are
       generated, it is implementation-defined whether a signal is delivered for each occurrence. This  is  not  ade‐
       quate  for  some  realtime  applications.  So a mechanism is required to allow applications to detect how many
       timer expirations were delayed without requiring an indefinite amount of system resources to store the delayed
       expirations.

       The specified facilities provide for an overrun count. The overrun count is defined as  the  number  of  extra
       timer  expirations that occurred between the time a timer expiration signal is generated and the time the sig‐
       nal is delivered. The signal-catching function, if it is concerned with overruns, can retrieve this  count  on
       entry.  With this method, a periodic timer only needs one ``signal queuing resource'' that can be allocated at
       the time of the timer_create() function call.

       A function is defined to retrieve the overrun count so that an application need not allocate static storage to
       contain the count, and an implementation need not update this storage  asynchronously  on  timer  expirations.
       But,  for  some  high-frequency periodic applications, the overhead of an additional system call on each timer
       expiration may be prohibitive. The functions, as defined, permit an implementation  to  maintain  the  overrun
       count  in user space, associated with the timerid.  The timer_getoverrun() function can then be implemented as
       a macro that uses the timerid argument (which may just be a pointer to a user space structure  containing  the
       counter)  to locate the overrun count with no system call overhead. Other implementations, less concerned with
       this class of applications, can avoid the asynchronous update of user space by maintaining the count in a sys‐
       tem structure at the cost of the extra system call to obtain it.

   Timer Expiration Signal Parameters
       The Realtime Signals Extension option supports an application-specific datum that is delivered to the extended
       signal handler. This value is explicitly specified by the application, along with the signal number to be  de‐
       livered,  in a sigevent structure. The type of the application-defined value can be either an integer constant
       or a pointer. This explicit specification of the value, as opposed to always sending the  timer  ID,  was  se‐
       lected based on existing practice.

       It  is  common practice for realtime applications (on non-POSIX systems or realtime extended POSIX systems) to
       use the parameters of event handlers as the case label of a switch statement or as a pointer  to  an  applica‐
       tion-defined  data  structure.  Since timer_ids are dynamically allocated by the timer_create() function, they
       can be used for neither of these functions without additional application overhead in the signal handler;  for
       example,  to search an array of saved timer IDs to associate the ID with a constant or application data struc‐
       ture.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       clock_getres(), timer_delete(), timer_getoverrun()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>, <time.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                        TIMER_CREATE(3P)
