TMPFS(5)                                      Linux Programmer's Manual                                      TMPFS(5)

NAME
       tmpfs - a virtual memory filesystem

DESCRIPTION
       The  tmpfs  facility  allows  the  creation of filesystems whose contents reside in virtual memory.  Since the
       files on such filesystems typically reside in RAM, file access is extremely fast.

       The filesystem is automatically created when mounting a filesystem with the type tmpfs via a command  such  as
       the following:

           $ sudo mount -t tmpfs -o size=10M tmpfs /mnt/mytmpfs

       A tmpfs filesystem has the following properties:

       *  The filesystem can employ swap space when physical memory pressure demands it.

       *  The  size option can be used to specify an upper limit on the size of the filesystem.  (The default size is
          half of the available RAM size.)  The filesystem consumes only as much physical memory and swap space as is
          required to store the current contents of the filesystem.

       *  During a remount operation (mount -o remount), the filesystem size can be changed (without losing  the  ex‐
          isting contents of the filesystem).

       If a tmpfs filesystem is unmounted, its contents are discarded (lost).

VERSIONS
       The  tmpfs  facility was added in Linux 2.4, as a successor to the older ramfs facility, which did not provide
       limit checking or allow for the use of swap space.

NOTES
       For a description of the mount options that may be employed when mounting a tmpfs filesystem, see mount(8).

       In order for user-space tools and applications to create tmpfs filesystems, the kernel must be configured with
       the CONFIG_TMPFS option.

       The tmpfs filesystem supports extended attributes (see xattr(7)), but user extended attributes are not permit‐
       ted.

       An internal shared memory filesystem is used for System V shared memory (shmget(2)) and shared anonymous  map‐
       pings  (mmap(2)  with  the  MAP_SHARED  and  MAP_ANONYMOUS flags).  This filesystem is available regardless of
       whether the kernel was configured with the CONFIG_TMPFS option.

       A tmpfs filesystem mounted at /dev/shm as used for the implementation of POSIX shared memory (shm_overview(7))
       and POSIX semaphores (sem_overview(7)).

       The amount of memory consumed by all tmpfs filesystems is shown in the Shmem field of /proc/meminfo and in the
       shared field displayed by free(1).

       The tmpfs facility was formerly called shmfs.

SEE ALSO
       df(1), du(1), memfd_create(2), mmap(2), shm_open(3), mount(8)

       The kernel source file Documentation/filesystems/tmpfs.txt.

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 4.15 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the  project,  information
       about    reporting    bugs,    and    the    latest    version    of    this    page,    can   be   found   at
       https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.

Linux                                                 2017-05-03                                             TMPFS(5)
