TMPNAM(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    TMPNAM(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tmpnam — create a name for a temporary file

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       char *tmpnam(char *s);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The tmpnam() function shall generate a string that is a valid pathname that does not name  an  existing  file.
       The  function is potentially capable of generating {TMP_MAX} different strings, but any or all of them may al‐
       ready be in use by existing files and thus not be suitable return values.

       The tmpnam() function generates a different string each time it  is  called  from  the  same  process,  up  to
       {TMP_MAX} times. If it is called more than {TMP_MAX} times, the behavior is implementation-defined.

       The  implementation  shall  behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, except tempnam(),
       calls tmpnam().

       The tmpnam() function need not be thread-safe if called with a NULL parameter.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, tmpnam() shall return a pointer to a string. If no suitable string can  be  gener‐
       ated, the tmpnam() function shall return a null pointer.

       If the argument s is a null pointer, tmpnam() shall leave its result in an internal static object and return a
       pointer  to  that  object. Subsequent calls to tmpnam() may modify the same object. If the argument s is not a
       null pointer, it is presumed to point to an array of at least L_tmpnam chars; tmpnam() shall write its  result
       in that array and shall return the argument as its value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Generating a Pathname
       The following example generates a unique pathname and stores it in the array pointed to by ptr.

           #include <stdio.h>
           ...
           char pathname[L_tmpnam+1];
           char *ptr;

           ptr = tmpnam(pathname);

APPLICATION USAGE
       This function only creates pathnames. It is the application's responsibility to create and remove the files.

       Between the time a pathname is created and the file is opened, it is possible for some other process to create
       a file with the same name.  Applications may find tmpfile() more useful.

       Applications  should  use the tmpfile(), mkstemp(), or mkdtemp() functions instead of the obsolescent tmpnam()
       function.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The tmpnam() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       fopen(), open(), mkdtemp(), tempnam(), tmpfile(), unlink()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              TMPNAM(3P)
