TOLOWER(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   TOLOWER(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tolower, tolower_l — transliterate uppercase characters to lowercase

SYNOPSIS
       #include <ctype.h>

       int tolower(int c);
       int tolower_l(int c, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For tolower(): The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict  between  the  requirements  described  here  and  the  ISO C  standard is unintentional. This volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The tolower() and tolower_l() functions have as a domain a type int, the value of which is representable as an
       unsigned char or the value of EOF. If the argument has any other value, the behavior is undefined. If the  ar‐
       gument  of tolower() or tolower_l() represents an uppercase letter, and there exists a corresponding lowercase
       letter as defined by character type information in the current locale or in the locale represented by  locale,
       respectively  (category LC_CTYPE), the result shall be the corresponding lowercase letter. All other arguments
       in the domain are returned unchanged.

       The behavior is undefined if the locale argument to tolower_l() is the special locale object  LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
       or is not a valid locale object handle.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion, the tolower() and tolower_l() functions shall return the lowercase letter corre‐
       sponding to the argument passed; otherwise, they shall return the argument unchanged.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       setlocale(), uselocale()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale, <ctype.h>, <locale.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             TOLOWER(3P)
