TPUT(1P)                                      POSIX Programmer's Manual                                      TPUT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tput — change terminal characteristics

SYNOPSIS
       tput [−T type] operand...

DESCRIPTION
       The  tput  utility  shall  display terminal-dependent information. The manner in which this information is re‐
       trieved is unspecified. The information displayed shall clear the terminal screen, initialize the user's  ter‐
       minal, or reset the user's terminal, depending on the operand given. The exact consequences of displaying this
       information are unspecified.

OPTIONS
       The  tput  utility  shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −T type   Indicate the type of terminal. If this option is not supplied and the  TERM  variable  is  unset  or
                 null,  an unspecified default terminal type shall be used. The setting of type shall take precedence
                 over the value in TERM.

OPERANDS
       The following strings shall be supported as operands by the implementation in the POSIX locale:

       clear     Display the clear-screen sequence.

       init      Display the sequence that initializes the user's terminal in an implementation-defined manner.

       reset     Display the sequence that resets the user's terminal in an implementation-defined manner.

       If a terminal does not support any of the operations described by these operands, this shall not be considered
       an error condition.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of tput:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

       TERM      Determine the terminal type. If this variable is unset or null, and if the −T option is  not  speci‐
                 fied, an unspecified default terminal type shall be used.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       If  standard  output  is  a  terminal device, it may be used for writing the appropriate sequence to clear the
       screen or reset or initialize the terminal. If standard output is not a terminal device, undefined results oc‐
       cur.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    The requested string was written successfully.

        1    Unspecified.

        2    Usage error.

        3    No information is available about the specified terminal type.

        4    The specified operand is invalid.

       >4    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       If one of the operands is not available for the terminal, tput continues processing the remaining operands.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The difference between resetting and initializing a terminal is left unspecified, as they vary  greatly  based
       on hardware types. In general, resetting is a more severe action.

       Some  terminals  use  control  characters to perform the stated functions, and on such terminals it might make
       sense to use tput to store the initialization strings in a file or environment variable for  later  use.  How‐
       ever,  because  other terminals might rely on system calls to do this work, the standard output cannot be used
       in a portable manner, such as the following non-portable constructs:

           ClearVar=`tput clear`
           tput reset | mailx −s "Wake Up" ddg

EXAMPLES
        1. Initialize the terminal according to the type of terminal in the environmental variable TERM.   This  com‐
           mand can be included in a .profile file.

               tput init

        2. Reset a 450 terminal.

               tput −T 450 reset

RATIONALE
       The list of operands was reduced to a minimum for the following reasons:

        *  The  only  features chosen were those that were likely to be used by human users interacting with a termi‐
           nal.

        *  Specifying the full terminfo set was not considered desirable, but the standard developers did not want to
           select among operands.

        *  This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not attempt to provide applications with sophisticated terminal  handling
           capabilities,  as  that  falls  outside  of its assigned scope and intersects with the responsibilities of
           other standards bodies.

       The difference between resetting and initializing a terminal is left unspecified as this varies greatly  based
       on hardware types. In general, resetting is a more severe action.

       The  exit  status  of 1 is historically reserved for finding out if a Boolean operand is not set. Although the
       operands were reduced to a minimum, the exit status of 1 should still be reserved for  the  Boolean  operands,
       for those sites that wish to support them.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       stty, tabs

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                TPUT(1P)
