TRUNCATE(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  TRUNCATE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       truncate — truncate a file to a specified length

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int truncate(const char *path, off_t length);

DESCRIPTION
       The  truncate()  function  shall  cause  the regular file named by path to have a size which shall be equal to
       length bytes.

       If the file previously was larger than length, the extra data is discarded. If the file was previously shorter
       than length, its size is increased, and the extended area appears as if it were zero-filled.

       The application shall ensure that the process has write permission for the file.

       If the request would cause the file size to exceed the soft file size limit for the process, the request shall
       fail and the implementation shall generate the SIGXFSZ signal for the process.

       The truncate() function shall not modify the file offset for any open file descriptions  associated  with  the
       file.  Upon successful completion, if the file size is changed, truncate() shall mark for update the last data
       modification and last file status change timestamps of the file, and the S_ISUID and S_ISGID bits of the  file
       mode may be cleared.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, truncate() shall return 0. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned, and errno set to indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       The truncate() function shall fail if:

       EINTR  A signal was caught during execution.

       EINVAL The length argument was less than 0.

       EFBIG or EINVAL
              The length argument was greater than the maximum file size.

       EIO    An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to a file system.

       EACCES A component of the path prefix denies search permission, or write permission is denied on the file.

       EISDIR The named file is a directory.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link
              to a directory, or the path argument contains at least one non-<slash> character and ends with  one  or
              more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname component names an existing file that is neither
              a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       EROFS  The named file resides on a read-only file system.

       The truncate() function may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The  length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       open()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            TRUNCATE(3P)
