TSORT(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     TSORT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tsort — topological sort

SYNOPSIS
       tsort [file]

DESCRIPTION
       The tsort utility shall write to standard output a totally ordered list of items consistent with a partial or‐
       dering of items contained in the input.

       The  application  shall  ensure  that  the  input  consists of pairs of items (non-empty strings) separated by
       <blank> characters. Pairs of different items indicate ordering. Pairs of identical  items  indicate  presence,
       but not ordering.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of a text file to order. If no file operand is given, the standard input shall be used.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used if no file operand is specified, and shall be used if the file operand is '−'
       and  the  implementation treats the '−' as meaning standard input.  Otherwise, the standard input shall not be
       used.  See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input file shall be a text file.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of tsort:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall be a text file consisting of the order list produced from the partially ordered  in‐
       put.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  LC_COLLATE  variable need not affect the actions of tsort.  The output ordering is not lexicographic, but
       depends on the pairs of items given as input.

EXAMPLES
       The command:

           tsort <<EOF
           a b c c d e
           g g
           f g e f
           h h
           EOF

       produces the output:

           a
           b
           c
           d
           e
           f
           g
           h

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               TSORT(1P)
