TTY(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       TTY(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tty — return user's terminal name

SYNOPSIS
       tty

DESCRIPTION
       The  tty  utility  shall write to the standard output the name of the terminal that is open as standard input.
       The name that is used shall be equivalent to the string that would be returned by the ttyname()  function  de‐
       fined in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

OPTIONS
       The  tty  utility  shall  conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       While no input is read from standard input, standard input shall be examined to determine whether or not it is
       a terminal, and, if so, to determine the name of the terminal.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of tty:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       If standard input is a terminal device, a pathname of the terminal as specified by the ttyname() function  de‐
       fined in the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008 shall be written in the following format:

           "%s\n", <terminal name>

       Otherwise,  a  message  shall be written indicating that standard input is not connected to a terminal. In the
       POSIX locale, the tty utility shall use the format:

           "not a tty\n"

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Standard input is a terminal.

        1    Standard input is not a terminal.

       >1    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       This utility checks the status of the file open as standard input against that  of  an  implementation-defined
       set  of files. It is possible that no match can be found, or that the match found need not be the same file as
       that which was opened for standard input (although they are the same device).

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, isatty(), ttyname()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 TTY(1P)
