TTYNAME(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   TTYNAME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ttyname, ttyname_r — find the pathname of a terminal

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       char *ttyname(int fildes);
       int ttyname_r(int fildes, char *name, size_t namesize);

DESCRIPTION
       The  ttyname() function shall return a pointer to a string containing a null-terminated pathname of the termi‐
       nal associated with file descriptor fildes.  The application shall not modify the  string  returned.  The  re‐
       turned  pointer  might  be invalidated or the string content might be overwritten by a subsequent call to tty‐
       name().

       The ttyname() function need not be thread-safe.

       The ttyname_r() function shall store the null-terminated pathname of the terminal associated with the file de‐
       scriptor fildes in the character array referenced by name.  The array is namesize characters long  and  should
       have  space  for the name and the terminating null character. The maximum length of the terminal name shall be
       {TTY_NAME_MAX}.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, ttyname() shall return a pointer to a string. Otherwise, a null pointer  shall  be
       returned and errno set to indicate the error.

       If successful, the ttyname_r() function shall return zero. Otherwise, an error number shall be returned to in‐
       dicate the error.

ERRORS
       The ttyname() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ENOTTY The file associated with the fildes argument is not a terminal.

       The ttyname_r() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ENOTTY The file associated with the fildes argument is not a terminal.

       ERANGE The value of namesize is smaller than the length of the string to be returned including the terminating
              null character.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The term ``terminal'' is used instead of the historical term ``terminal device'' in order to avoid a reference
       to an undefined term.

       The  thread-safe version places the terminal name in a user-supplied buffer and returns a non-zero value if it
       fails. The non-thread-safe version may return the name in a static data area that may be overwritten  by  each
       call.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             TTYNAME(3P)
