ULIMIT(1P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    ULIMIT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ulimit — set or report file size limit

SYNOPSIS
       ulimit [−f] [blocks]

DESCRIPTION
       The  ulimit  utility shall set or report the file-size writing limit imposed on files written by the shell and
       its child processes (files of any size may be read). Only a process with appropriate privileges  can  increase
       the limit.

OPTIONS
       The  ulimit utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −f        Set (or report, if no blocks operand is present), the file size limit in blocks. The −f option shall
                 also be the default case.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       blocks    The number of 512-byte blocks to use as the new file size limit.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of ulimit:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall be used when no blocks operand is present. If the current number of blocks  is  lim‐
       ited, the number of blocks in the current limit shall be written in the following format:

           "%d\n", <number of 512-byte blocks>

       If there is no current limit on the number of blocks, in the POSIX locale the following format shall be used:

           "unlimited\n"

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    A request for a higher limit was rejected or an error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Since  ulimit affects the current shell execution environment, it is always provided as a shell regular built-
       in. If it is called in a separate utility execution environment, such as one of the following:

           nohup ulimit −f 10000
           env ulimit 10000

       it does not affect the file size limit of the caller's environment.

       Once a limit has been decreased by a process, it cannot be increased (unless appropriate  privileges  are  in‐
       volved), even back to the original system limit.

EXAMPLES
       Set the file size limit to 51200 bytes:

           ulimit −f 100

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, ulimit()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              ULIMIT(1P)
