ULIMIT(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    ULIMIT(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ulimit — get and set process limits

SYNOPSIS
       #include <ulimit.h>

       long ulimit(int cmd, ...);

DESCRIPTION
       The ulimit() function shall control process limits. The process limits that can be controlled by this function
       include  the  maximum  size of a single file that can be written (this is equivalent to using setrlimit() with
       RLIMIT_FSIZE). The cmd values, defined in <ulimit.h>, include:

       UL_GETFSIZE Return the file size limit (RLIMIT_FSIZE) of the process. The limit shall be in units of  512-byte
                   blocks  and shall be inherited by child processes. Files of any size can be read. The return value
                   shall be the integer part of the soft file size limit divided by 512. If the result cannot be rep‐
                   resented as a long, the result is unspecified.

       UL_SETFSIZE Set the file size limit for output operations of the process to the value of the second  argument,
                   taken  as  a long, multiplied by 512. If the result would overflow an rlim_t, the actual value set
                   is unspecified. Any process may decrease its own limit, but only a process with appropriate privi‐
                   leges may increase the limit. The return value shall be the integer part  of  the  new  file  size
                   limit divided by 512.

       The ulimit() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       As all return values are permissible in a successful situation, an application wishing to check for error sit‐
       uations should set errno to 0, then call ulimit(), and, if it returns −1, check to see if errno is non-zero.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, ulimit() shall return the value of the requested limit. Otherwise, −1 shall be re‐
       turned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The ulimit() function shall fail and the limit shall be unchanged if:

       EINVAL The cmd argument is not valid.

       EPERM  A process not having appropriate privileges attempts to increase its file size limit.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Since  the ulimit() function uses type long rather than rlim_t, this function is not sufficient for file sizes
       on many current systems.  Applications should use the getrlimit() or setrlimit() functions instead of the  ob‐
       solescent ulimit() function.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The ulimit() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       exec, getrlimit(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <ulimit.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              ULIMIT(3P)
