UNALIAS(1P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   UNALIAS(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       unalias — remove alias definitions

SYNOPSIS
       unalias alias-name...

       unalias −a

DESCRIPTION
       The  unalias  utility shall remove the definition for each alias name specified. See Section 2.3.1, Alias Sub‐
       stitution.  The aliases shall be removed from the current shell execution environment; see Section 2.12, Shell
       Execution Environment.

OPTIONS
       The unalias utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       −a        Remove all alias definitions from the current shell execution environment.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       alias-name
                 The name of an alias to be removed.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of unalias:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    One of the alias-name operands specified did not represent a valid alias definition,  or  an  error  oc‐
             curred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Since  unalias  affects  the  current shell execution environment, it is generally provided as a shell regular
       built-in.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The unalias description is based on that from historical KornShell implementations.  Known  differences  exist
       between  that and the C shell. The KornShell version was adopted to be consistent with all the other KornShell
       features in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008, such as command line editing.

       The −a option is the equivalent of the unalias * form of the C shell and is provided to address security  con‐
       cerns  about  unknown aliases entering the environment of a user (or application) through the allowable imple‐
       mentation-defined predefined alias route or as a result of an ENV file. (Although unalias  could  be  used  to
       simplify the ``secure'' shell script shown in the command rationale, it does not obviate the need to quote all
       command names. An initial call to unalias −a would have to be quoted in case there was an alias for unalias.)

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 2, Shell Command Language, alias

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             UNALIAS(1P)
