UNAME(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     UNAME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uname — get the name of the current system

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/utsname.h>

       int uname(struct utsname *name);

DESCRIPTION
       The  uname()  function  shall  store information identifying the current system in the structure pointed to by
       name.

       The uname() function uses the utsname structure defined in <sys/utsname.h>.

       The uname() function shall return a string naming the current system in the character  array  sysname.   Simi‐
       larly,  nodename  shall contain the name of this node within an implementation-defined communications network.
       The arrays release and version shall further identify the operating system. The array machine shall contain  a
       name that identifies the hardware that the system is running on.

       The format of each member is implementation-defined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, a non-negative value shall be returned.  Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno
       set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  inclusion  of  the nodename member in this structure does not imply that it is sufficient information for
       interfacing to communications networks.

RATIONALE
       The values of the structure members are not constrained to have any relation to the version of this volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008  implemented  in the operating system. An application should instead depend on _POSIX_VERSION and
       related constants defined in <unistd.h>.

       This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not define the sizes of the members of the structure and permits them  to  be
       of  different  sizes,  although most implementations define them all to be the same size: eight bytes plus one
       byte for the string terminator. That size for nodename is not enough for use with many networks.

       The uname() function originated in System III, System V, and related implementations, and it does not exist in
       Version 7 or 4.3 BSD. The values it returns are set at system compile time  in  those  historical  implementa‐
       tions.

       4.3  BSD  has  gethostname()  and gethostid(), which return a symbolic name and a numeric value, respectively.
       There are related sethostname() and sethostid() functions that are used to set the values the other two  func‐
       tions return. The former functions are included in this specification, the latter are not.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_utsname.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               UNAME(3P)
