UNAME(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     UNAME(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uname — return system name

SYNOPSIS
       uname [−amnrsv]

DESCRIPTION
       By default, the uname utility shall write the operating system name to standard output. When options are spec‐
       ified,  symbols  representing  one or more system characteristics shall be written to the standard output. The
       format and contents of the symbols are implementation-defined. On systems conforming to the System  Interfaces
       volume of POSIX.1‐2008, the symbols written shall be those supported by the uname() function as defined in the
       System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008.

OPTIONS
       The  uname  utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −a        Behave as though all of the options −mnrsv were specified.

       −m        Write the name of the hardware type on which the system is running to standard output.

       −n        Write the name of this node within an implementation-defined communications network.

       −r        Write the current release level of the operating system implementation.

       −s        Write the name of the implementation of the operating system.

       −v        Write the current version level of this release of the operating system implementation.

       If no options are specified, the uname utility shall write the operating system name, as if the −s option  had
       been specified.

OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of uname:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       By default, the output shall be a single line of the following form:

           "%s\n", <sysname>

       If the −a option is specified, the output shall be a single line of the following form:

           "%s %s %s %s %s\n", <sysname>, <nodename>, <release>,
               <version>, <machine>

       Additional  implementation-defined symbols may be written; all such symbols shall be written at the end of the
       line of output before the <newline>.

       If options are specified to select different combinations of the symbols, only those symbols shall be written,
       in the order shown above for the −a option. If a symbol is not selected for writing, its corresponding  trail‐
       ing <blank> characters also shall not be written.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    The requested information was successfully written.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Note that any of the symbols could include embedded <space> characters, which may affect parsing algorithms if
       multiple options are selected for output.

       The  node  name is typically a name that the system uses to identify itself for inter-system communication ad‐
       dressing.

EXAMPLES
       The following command:

           uname −sr

       writes the operating system name and release level, separated by one or more <blank> characters.

RATIONALE
       It was suggested that this utility cannot be used portably since the format of the symbols is  implementation-
       defined. The POSIX.1 working group could not achieve consensus on defining these formats in the underlying un‐
       ame()  function,  and  there was no expectation that this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 would be any more successful.
       Some applications may still find this historical utility of value. For example, the symbols could be used  for
       system log entries or for comparison with operator or user input.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008, uname()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               UNAME(1P)
