UNEXPAND(1P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  UNEXPAND(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       unexpand — convert spaces to tabs

SYNOPSIS
       unexpand [−a|−t tablist] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  unexpand  utility shall copy files or standard input to standard output, converting <blank> characters at
       the beginning of each line into the maximum number of <tab> characters  followed  by  the  minimum  number  of
       <space>  characters needed to fill the same column positions originally filled by the translated <blank> char‐
       acters. By default, tabstops shall be set at every eighth column position. Each <backspace> shall be copied to
       the output, and shall cause the column position count for tab calculations to be decremented; the count  shall
       never be decremented to a value less than one.

OPTIONS
       The  unexpand utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syn‐
       tax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −a        In addition to translating <blank> characters at the beginning of each line, translate all sequences
                 of two or more <blank> characters immediately preceding a tab stop to the maximum  number  of  <tab>
                 characters followed by the minimum number of <space> characters needed to fill the same column posi‐
                 tions originally filled by the translated <blank> characters.

       −t tablist
                 Specify the tab stops. The application shall ensure that the tablist option-argument is a single ar‐
                 gument  consisting of a single positive decimal integer or multiple positive decimal integers, sepa‐
                 rated by <blank> or <comma> characters, in ascending order. If a single number is given, tabs  shall
                 be  set  tablist column positions apart instead of the default 8. If multiple numbers are given, the
                 tabs shall be set at those specific column positions.

                 The application shall ensure that each tab-stop position N is an integer value  greater  than  zero,
                 and  the  list shall be in strictly ascending order. This is taken to mean that, from the start of a
                 line of output, tabbing to position N shall cause the next character output to  be  in  the  (N+1)th
                 column  position on that line. When the −t option is not specified, the default shall be the equiva‐
                 lent of specifying −t 8 (except for the interaction with −a, described below).

                 No <space>-to-<tab> conversions shall occur for characters at positions beyond  the  last  of  those
                 specified in a multiple tab-stop list.

                 When  −t  is  specified, the presence or absence of the −a option shall be ignored; conversion shall
                 not be limited to the processing of leading <blank> characters.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of a text file to be used as input.

STDIN
       See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files shall be text files.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of unexpand:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files), the process‐
                 ing of <tab> and <space> characters, and for the determination of the width in column positions each
                 character would occupy on an output device.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall be equivalent to the input files with the specified <space>-to-<tab> conversions.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       One non-intuitive aspect of unexpand is its restriction to leading <space> characters when neither −a  nor  −t
       is  specified.  Users who always want to convert all <space> characters in a file can easily alias unexpand to
       use the −a or −t 8 option.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       On several occasions, consideration was given to adding a −t option to the unexpand utility to complement  the
       −t  in  expand  (see  expand).  The historical intent of unexpand was to translate multiple <blank> characters
       into tab stops, where tab stops were a multiple of eight column positions on most UNIX systems. An early  pro‐
       posal  omitted −t because it seemed outside the scope of the User Portability Utilities option; it was not de‐
       scribed in any of the base documents. However, hard-coding tab stops every eight columns was not suitable  for
       the  international  community and broke historical precedents for some vendors in the FORTRAN community, so −t
       was restored in conjunction with the list of valid extension categories considered by the standard developers.
       Thus, unexpand is now the logical converse of expand.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       expand, tabs

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            UNEXPAND(1P)
