UNGETWC(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   UNGETWC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ungetwc — push wide-character code back into the input stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>
       #include <wchar.h>

       wint_t ungetwc(wint_t wc, FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The ungetwc() function shall push the character corresponding to the wide-character code specified by wc  back
       onto  the input stream pointed to by stream.  The pushed-back characters shall be returned by subsequent reads
       on that stream in the reverse order of their pushing. A successful intervening call (with the  stream  pointed
       to  by  stream)  to  a file-positioning function (fseek(), fseeko(), fsetpos(), or rewind()) or fflush() shall
       discard any pushed-back characters for the stream. The external storage corresponding to  the  stream  is  un‐
       changed.

       At  least  one  character  of  push-back  shall be provided. If ungetwc() is called too many times on the same
       stream without an intervening read or file-positioning operation on that stream, the operation may fail.

       If the value of wc equals that of the macro WEOF, the operation shall fail and the input stream shall be  left
       unchanged.

       A successful call to ungetwc() shall clear the end-of-file indicator for the stream. The value of the file-po‐
       sition  indicator  for  the  stream  after  all pushed-back characters have been read, or discarded by calling
       fseek(), fseeko(), fsetpos(), or rewind() (but not fflush()), shall be the same as it was before  the  charac‐
       ters  were pushed back. The file-position indicator is decremented (by one or more) by each successful call to
       ungetwc(); if its value was 0 before a call, its value is unspecified after the call.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, ungetwc() shall return the wide-character code corresponding  to  the  pushed-back
       character. Otherwise, it shall return WEOF.

ERRORS
       The ungetwc() function may fail if:

       EILSEQ An  invalid  character  sequence  is  detected, or a wide-character code does not correspond to a valid
              character.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fseek(), fsetpos(), read(), rewind(), setbuf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             UNGETWC(3P)
