UNGETC(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    UNGETC(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ungetc — push byte back into input stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int ungetc(int c, FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The ungetc() function shall push the byte specified by c (converted to an unsigned char) back onto  the  input
       stream  pointed  to  by stream.  The pushed-back bytes shall be returned by subsequent reads on that stream in
       the reverse order of their pushing. A successful intervening call (with the stream pointed to by stream) to  a
       file-positioning  function  (fseek(),  fseeko(), fsetpos(), or rewind()) or fflush() shall discard any pushed-
       back bytes for the stream. The external storage corresponding to the stream shall be unchanged.

       One byte of push-back shall be provided. If ungetc() is called too many times on the same  stream  without  an
       intervening read or file-positioning operation on that stream, the operation may fail.

       If  the  value  of c equals that of the macro EOF, the operation shall fail and the input stream shall be left
       unchanged.

       A successful call to ungetc() shall clear the end-of-file indicator for the stream. The value of the  file-po‐
       sition  indicator  for the stream after all pushed-back bytes have been read, or discarded by calling fseek(),
       fseeko(), fsetpos(), or rewind() (but not fflush()), shall be the same as it was before the bytes were  pushed
       back.  The  file-position indicator is decremented by each successful call to ungetc(); if its value was 0 be‐
       fore a call, its value is unspecified after the call.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, ungetc() shall return the byte pushed back after conversion. Otherwise,  it  shall
       return EOF.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fseek(), getc(), fsetpos(), read(), rewind(), setbuf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              UNGETC(3P)
