UNSETENV(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  UNSETENV(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       unsetenv — remove an environment variable

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int unsetenv(const char *name);

DESCRIPTION
       The  unsetenv() function shall remove an environment variable from the environment of the calling process. The
       name argument points to a string, which is the name of the variable to be removed. The  named  argument  shall
       not contain an '=' character. If the named variable does not exist in the current environment, the environment
       shall be unchanged and the function is considered to have completed successfully.

       The unsetenv() function shall update the list of pointers to which environ points.

       The unsetenv() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, zero shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned, errno set to indicate the
       error, and the environment shall be unchanged.

ERRORS
       The unsetenv() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The name argument points to an empty string, or points to a string containing an '=' character.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Refer to the RATIONALE section in setenv().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getenv(), setenv()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>, <sys_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            UNSETENV(3P)
