USELOCALE(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 USELOCALE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uselocale — use locale in current thread

SYNOPSIS
       #include <locale.h>

       locale_t uselocale(locale_t newloc);

DESCRIPTION
       The  uselocale()  function  shall  set  the current locale for the current thread to the locale represented by
       newloc.

       The value for the newloc argument shall be one of the following:

        1. A value returned by the newlocale() or duplocale() functions

        2. The special locale object descriptor LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE

        3. (locale_t)0

       Once the uselocale() function has been called to install a thread-local locale, the behavior of  every  inter‐
       face using data from the current locale shall be affected for the calling thread. The current locale for other
       threads shall remain unchanged.

       If  the newloc argument is (locale_t)0, the object returned is the current locale or LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE if there
       has been no previous call to uselocale() for the current thread.

       If the newloc argument is LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE, the thread shall use the global locale determined  by  the  setlo‐
       cale() function.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the uselocale() function shall return the locale handle from the previous call for
       the  current thread, or LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE if there was no such previous call.  Otherwise, uselocale() shall re‐
       turn (locale_t)0 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The uselocale() function may fail if:

       EINVAL locale is not a valid locale object.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Unlike the setlocale() function, the uselocale() function does not  allow  replacing  some  locale  categories
       only.  Applications  that need to install a locale which differs only in a few categories must use newlocale()
       to change a locale object equivalent to the currently used locale and install it.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       duplocale(), freelocale(), newlocale(), setlocale()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <locale.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           USELOCALE(3P)
