UTIME(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     UTIME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       utime — set file access and modification times

SYNOPSIS
       #include <utime.h>

       int utime(const char *path, const struct utimbuf *times);

DESCRIPTION
       The utime() function shall set the access and modification times of the file named by the path argument.

       If  times  is  a null pointer, the access and modification times of the file shall be set to the current time.
       The effective user ID of the process shall match the owner of the file, or the process has write permission to
       the file or has appropriate privileges, to use utime() in this manner.

       If times is not a null pointer, times shall be interpreted as a pointer to a utimbuf structure and the  access
       and  modification  times shall be set to the values contained in the designated structure. Only a process with
       the effective user ID equal to the user ID of the file or  a  process  with  appropriate  privileges  may  use
       utime() this way.

       The  utimbuf  structure is defined in the <utime.h> header. The times in the structure utimbuf are measured in
       seconds since the Epoch.

       Upon successful completion, the utime() function shall mark the last file status change timestamp for  update;
       see <sys/stat.h>.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and errno shall be set to in‐
       dicate the error, and the file times shall not be affected.

ERRORS
       The utime() function shall fail if:

       EACCES Search  permission is denied by a component of the path prefix; or the times argument is a null pointer
              and the effective user ID of the process does not match the owner of the file,  the  process  does  not
              have write permission for the file, and the process does not have appropriate privileges.

       ELOOP  A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a component of a pathname is longer than {NAME_MAX}.

       ENOENT A component of path does not name an existing file or path is an empty string.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link
              to a directory, or the path argument contains at least one non-<slash> character and ends with  one  or
              more trailing <slash> characters and the last pathname component names an existing file that is neither
              a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.

       EPERM  The  times  argument  is  not  a null pointer and the effective user ID of the calling process does not
              match the owner of the file and the calling process does not have appropriate privileges.

       EROFS  The file system containing the file is read-only.

       The utime() function may fail if:

       ELOOP  More than {SYMLOOP_MAX} symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the path argument.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              The length of a pathname exceeds {PATH_MAX}, or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an  in‐
              termediate result with a length that exceeds {PATH_MAX}.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Since  the  utimbuf structure only contains time_t variables and is not accurate to fractions of a second, ap‐
       plications should use the utimensat() function instead of the obsolescent utime() function.

RATIONALE
       The actime structure member must be present so that an application may set it, even though  an  implementation
       may  ignore  it  and not change the last data access timestamp on the file. If an application intends to leave
       one of the times of a file unchanged while changing the other, it should use stat() or fstat() to retrieve the
       file's st_atim and st_mtim parameters, set actime and modtime in the buffer, and change  one  of  them  before
       making the utime() call.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The utime() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       fstat(), fstatat(), futimens()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <sys_stat.h>, <utime.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               UTIME(3P)
