UUDECODE(1P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  UUDECODE(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uudecode — decode a binary file

SYNOPSIS
       uudecode [−o outfile] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       The  uudecode utility shall read a file, or standard input if no file is specified, that includes data created
       by the uuencode utility. The uudecode utility shall scan the input file, searching for  data  compatible  with
       one  of  the  formats specified in uuencode, and attempt to create or overwrite the file described by the data
       (or overridden by the −o option). The pathname shall be contained in the data or specified by the  −o  option.
       The  file access permission bits and contents for the file to be produced shall be contained in that data. The
       mode bits of the created file (other than standard output) shall be set from the file access  permission  bits
       contained  in  the  data;  that  is,  other attributes of the mode, including the file mode creation mask (see
       umask), shall not affect the file being produced. If either of the op characters '+' and '−' (see  chmod)  are
       specified in symbolic mode, the initial mode on which those operations are based is unspecified.

       If  the  pathname of the file to be produced exists, and the user does not have write permission on that file,
       uudecode shall terminate with an error. If the pathname of the file to be produced exists, and  the  user  has
       write permission on that file, the existing file shall be overwritten.

       If  the  input  data was produced by uuencode on a system with a different number of bits per byte than on the
       target system, the results of uudecode are unspecified.

OPTIONS
       The uudecode utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility  Syn‐
       tax Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported by the implementation:

       −o outfile
                 A  pathname of a file that shall be used instead of any pathname contained in the input data. Speci‐
                 fying an outfile option-argument of /dev/stdout shall indicate standard output.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      The pathname of a file containing the output of uuencode.

STDIN
       See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files shall be files containing the output of uuencode.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of uudecode:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       If the file data header encoded by uuencode is − or /dev/stdout, or the −o /dev/stdout  option  overrides  the
       file data, the standard output shall be in the same format as the file originally encoded by uuencode.  Other‐
       wise, the standard output shall not be used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The output file shall be in the same format as the file originally encoded by uuencode.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The user who is invoking uudecode must have write permission on any file being created.

       The  output  of  uuencode is essentially an encoded bit stream that is not cognizant of byte boundaries. It is
       possible that a 9-bit byte target machine can process input from an 8-bit source, if it is aware  of  the  re‐
       quirement,  but the reverse is unlikely to be satisfying. Of course, the only data that is meaningful for such
       a transfer between architectures is generally character data.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       Input files are not necessarily text files, as stated by an early proposal. Although the uuencode output is  a
       text file, that output could have been wrapped within another file or mail message that is not a text file.

       The −o option is not historical practice, but was added at the request of WG15 so that the user could override
       the target pathname without having to edit the input data itself.

       In  early  drafts, the [−o outfile] option-argument allowed the use of − to mean standard output. The symbol −
       has only been used previously in POSIX.1‐2008 as a standard input indicator.  The standard developers did  not
       wish  to  overload the meaning of − in this manner. The /dev/stdout concept exists on most modern systems. The
       /dev/stdout syntax does not refer to a new special file. It is just a magic cookie to specify standard output.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chmod, umask, uuencode

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            UUDECODE(1P)
