UUSTAT(1P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    UUSTAT(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uustat — uucp status enquiry and job control

SYNOPSIS
       uustat [−q|−k jobid|−r jobid]

       uustat [−s system] [−u user]

DESCRIPTION
       The uustat utility shall display the status of, or cancel, previously specified uucp requests, or provide gen‐
       eral status on uucp connections to other systems.

       When no options are given, uustat shall write to standard output the status of all uucp requests issued by the
       current user.

       Typical  implementations  of this utility require a communications line configured to use the Base Definitions
       volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface, but other communications means may be used. On
       systems where there are no available communications means (either temporarily or  permanently),  this  utility
       shall write an error message describing the problem and exit with a non-zero exit status.

OPTIONS
       The  uustat utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −q        Write the jobs queued for each machine.

       −k jobid  Kill the uucp request whose job identification is jobid.  The  application  shall  ensure  that  the
                 killed  uucp  request  belongs to the person invoking uustat unless that user has appropriate privi‐
                 leges.

       −r jobid  Rejuvenate jobid.  The files associated with jobid are touched so that their  modification  time  is
                 set to the current time. This prevents the cleanup program from deleting the job until the jobs mod‐
                 ification time reaches the limit imposed by the program.

       −s system Write the status of all uucp requests for remote system system.

       −u user   Write the status of all uucp requests issued by user.

OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of uustat:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error, and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall consist of information about each job selected, in an unspecified format. The infor‐
       mation shall include at least the job ID, the user ID or name, and the remote system name.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       This utility is part of the UUCP Utilities option and need not be supported by all implementations.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       uucp

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Chapter 11, General Terminal
       Interface, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              UUSTAT(1P)
