UUX(1P)                                       POSIX Programmer's Manual                                       UUX(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uux — remote command execution

SYNOPSIS
       uux [−jnp] command−string

DESCRIPTION
       The  uux  utility  shall gather zero or more files from various systems, execute a shell pipeline (see Section
       2.9, Shell Commands) on a specified system, and then send the standard output of the command to a  file  on  a
       specified  system. Only the first command of a pipeline can have a system-name!  prefix. All other commands in
       the pipeline shall be executed on the system of the first command.

       The following restrictions are applicable to the shell pipeline processed by uux:

        *  In gathering files from different systems, pathname expansion shall not be performed by uux.  Thus, a  re‐
           quest such as:

               uux "c99 remsys!~/*.c"

           would attempt to copy the file named literally *.c to the local system.

        *  The  redirection  operators ">>", "<<", ">|", and ">&" shall not be accepted. Any use of these redirection
           operators shall cause this utility to write an error message describing the problem and exit with  a  non-
           zero exit status.

        *  The  reserved word !  cannot be used at the head of the pipeline to modify the exit status.  (See the com‐
           mand-string operand description below.)

        *  Alias substitution shall not be performed.

       A filename can be specified as for uucp; it can be an absolute pathname, a pathname preceded by  ~name  (which
       is  replaced  by  the  corresponding login directory), a pathname specified as ~/dest (dest is prefixed by the
       public directory called PUBDIR; the actual location of PUBDIR is implementation-defined), or a simple filename
       (which is prefixed by uux with the current directory). See uucp for the details.

       The execution of commands on remote systems shall take place in an execution directory known to the uucp  sys‐
       tem.  All files required for the execution shall be put into this directory unless they already reside on that
       machine. Therefore, the application shall ensure that non-local filenames (without path or machine  reference)
       are unique within the uux request.

       The  uux  utility shall attempt to get all files to the execution system. For files that are output files, the
       application shall ensure that the filename is escaped using parentheses.

       The remote system shall notify the user by mail if the requested command on the remote system  was  disallowed
       or the files were not accessible. This notification can be turned off by the −n option.

       Typical  implementations  of this utility require a communications line configured to use the Base Definitions
       volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface, but other communications means may be used. On
       systems where there are no available communications means (either temporarily or  permanently),  this  utility
       shall write an error message describing the problem and exit with a non-zero exit status.

       The uux utility cannot guarantee support for all character encodings in all circumstances. For example, trans‐
       mission  data  may  be  restricted  to  7 bits by the underlying network, 8-bit data and filenames need not be
       portable to non-internationalized systems, and so on. Under these circumstances, it is recommended  that  only
       characters  defined  in  the  ISO/IEC 646:1991  standard International Reference Version (equivalent to ASCII)
       7-bit range of characters be used and that only characters defined in the portable filename character  set  be
       used for naming files.

OPTIONS
       The  uux  utility  shall  conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −j        Write the job identification string to standard output. This job identification can be used by  uus‐
                 tat to obtain the status or terminate a job.

       −n        Do not notify the user if the command fails.

       −p        Make the standard input to uux the standard input to the command-string.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       command-string
                 A  string made up of one or more arguments that are similar to normal command arguments, except that
                 the command and any filenames can be prefixed by system-name!.  A null system-name shall  be  inter‐
                 preted as the local system.

STDIN
       The  standard  input  shall not be used unless the '−' or −p option is specified; in those cases, the standard
       input shall be made the standard input of the command-string.

INPUT FILES
       Input files shall be selected according to the contents of command-string.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of uux:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The standard output shall not be used unless the −j option is specified; in that case, the job  identification
       string shall be written to standard output in the following format:

           "%s\n", <jobid>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       Output files shall be created or written, or both, according to the contents of command-string.

       If  −n  is  not used, mail files shall be modified following any command or file-access failures on the remote
       system.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       This utility is part of the UUCP Utilities option and need not be supported by all implementations.

       Note that, for security reasons, many installations limit the list of commands executable on behalf of an  in‐
       coming request from uux.  Many sites permit little more than the receipt of mail via uux.

       Any characters special to the command interpreter should be quoted either by quoting the entire command-string
       or quoting the special characters as individual arguments.

       As noted in uucp, shell pattern matching notation characters appearing in pathnames are expanded on the appro‐
       priate  local system. This is done under the control of local settings of LC_COLLATE and LC_CTYPE.  Thus, care
       should be taken when using bracketed filename patterns, as collation and typing rules may vary from one system
       to another. Also be aware that certain types of expression (that is, equivalence classes,  character  classes,
       and collating symbols) need not be supported on non-internationalized systems.

EXAMPLES
        1. The following command gets file1 from system a and file2 from system b, executes diff on the local system,
           and  puts  the results in file.diff in the local PUBDIR directory. (PUBDIR is the uucp public directory on
           the local system.)

               uux "!diff a!/usr/file1 b!/a4/file2 >!~/file.diff"

        2. The following command fails because uux places all files copied to a system in the same working directory.
           Although the files xyz are from two different systems, their filenames are the same and conflict.

               uux "!diff a!/usr1/xyz b!/usr2/xyz >!~/xyz.diff"

        3. The following command succeeds (assuming diff is permitted on system a) because the file local to system a
           is not copied to the working directory, and hence does not conflict with the file from system c.

               uux "a!diff a!/usr/xyz c!/usr/xyz >!~/xyz.diff"

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Chapter 2, Shell Command Language, uucp, uuencode, uustat

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Chapter  11,  General  Terminal
       Interface, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                 UUX(1P)
