WAITID(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    WAITID(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       waitid — wait for a child process to change state

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/wait.h>

       int waitid(idtype_t idtype, id_t id, siginfo_t *infop, int options);

DESCRIPTION
       The  waitid()  function shall suspend the calling thread until one child of the process containing the calling
       thread changes state. It records the current state of a child in the  structure  pointed  to  by  infop.   The
       fields  of  the structure pointed to by infop are filled in as described for the SIGCHLD signal in <signal.h>.
       If a child process changed state prior to the call to waitid(), waitid() shall  return  immediately.  If  more
       than  one  thread  is suspended in wait(), waitid(), or waitpid() waiting for termination of the same process,
       exactly one thread shall return the process status at the time of the target process termination.

       The idtype and id arguments are used to specify which children waitid() waits for.

       If idtype is P_PID, waitid() shall wait for the child with a process ID equal to (pid_t)id.

       If idtype is P_PGID, waitid() shall wait for any child with a process group ID equal to (pid_t)id.

       If idtype is P_ALL, waitid() shall wait for any children and id is ignored.

       The options argument is used to specify which state changes waitid() shall wait for. It is  formed  by  OR'ing
       together the following flags:

       WCONTINUED  Status shall be returned for any continued child process whose status either has not been reported
                   since it continued from a job control stop or has been reported only by calls to waitid() with the
                   WNOWAIT flag set.

       WEXITED     Wait for processes that have exited.

       WNOHANG     Do not hang if no status is available; return immediately.

       WNOWAIT     Keep  the process whose status is returned in infop in a waitable state. This shall not affect the
                   state of the process; the process may be waited for again after this call completes.

       WSTOPPED    Status shall be returned for any child that has stopped upon receipt of a signal, and whose status
                   either has not been reported since it stopped or has been reported only by calls to waitid()  with
                   the WNOWAIT flag set.

       Applications  shall specify at least one of the flags WEXITED, WSTOPPED, or WCONTINUED to be OR'ed in with the
       options argument.

       The application shall ensure that the infop argument points to a siginfo_t structure. If waitid() returns  be‐
       cause  a  child process was found that satisfied the conditions indicated by the arguments idtype and options,
       then the structure pointed to by infop shall be filled in by the system with the status of  the  process;  the
       si_signo  member  shall be set equal to SIGCHLD.  If waitid() returns because WNOHANG was specified and status
       is not available for any process specified by idtype and id, then the  si_signo  and  si_pid  members  of  the
       structure  pointed  to  by infop shall be set to zero and the values of other members of the structure are un‐
       specified.

RETURN VALUE
       If WNOHANG was specified and status is not available for any process specified by idtype and id,  0  shall  be
       returned.  If  waitid() returns due to the change of state of one of its children, 0 shall be returned. Other‐
       wise, −1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The waitid() function shall fail if:

       ECHILD The calling process has no existing unwaited-for child processes.

       EINTR  The waitid() function was interrupted by a signal.

       EINVAL An invalid value was specified for options, or idtype and id specify an invalid set of processes.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Calls to waitid() with idtype equal to P_ALL will collect information about any child process. This may result
       in interactions with other interfaces that may be waiting for their own children (such as by use of system()).
       For this reason it is recommended that portable applications not use waitid() with idtype of P_ALL.  See  also
       APPLICATION USAGE for wait().

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, exit(), wait()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <signal.h>, <sys_wait.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              WAITID(3P)
