WC(1P)                                        POSIX Programmer's Manual                                        WC(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wc — word, line, and byte or character count

SYNOPSIS
       wc [−c|−m] [−lw] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  wc  utility shall read one or more input files and, by default, write the number of <newline> characters,
       words, and bytes contained in each input file to the standard output.

       The utility also shall write a total count for all named files, if more than one input file is specified.

       The wc utility shall consider a word to be a non-zero-length string of characters delimited by white space.

OPTIONS
       The wc utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of  POSIX.1‐2008,  Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       −c        Write to the standard output the number of bytes in each input file.

       −l        Write to the standard output the number of <newline> characters in each input file.

       −m        Write to the standard output the number of characters in each input file.

       −w        Write to the standard output the number of words in each input file.

       When any option is specified, wc shall report only the information requested by the specified options.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname of an input file. If no file operands are specified, the standard input shall be used.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be used if no file operands are specified, and shall be used if a file operand is '−'
       and  the  implementation treats the '−' as meaning standard input.  Otherwise, the standard input shall not be
       used.  See the INPUT FILES section.

INPUT FILES
       The input files may be of any type.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of wc:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for  the  precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data  as  characters  (for
                 example,  single-byte  as  opposed  to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files) and which
                 characters are defined as white-space characters.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents  of  diagnostic  messages
                 written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       By default, the standard output shall contain an entry for each input file of the form:

           "%d %d %d %s\n", <newlines>, <words>, <bytes>, <file>

       If the −m option is specified, the number of characters shall replace the <bytes> field in this format.

       If  any options are specified and the −l option is not specified, the number of <newline> characters shall not
       be written.

       If any options are specified and the −w option is not specified, the number of words shall not be written.

       If any options are specified and neither −c nor −m is specified, the number of bytes or characters  shall  not
       be written.

       If  no  input  file  operands  are specified, no name shall be written and no <blank> characters preceding the
       pathname shall be written.

       If more than one input file operand is specified, an additional line shall be written, of the same  format  as
       the  other  lines, except that the word total (in the POSIX locale) shall be written instead of a pathname and
       the total of each column shall be written as appropriate. Such an additional line, if any, is written  at  the
       end of the output.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  −m option is not a switch, but an option at the same level as −c.  Thus, to produce the full default out‐
       put with character counts instead of bytes, the command required is:

           wc −mlw

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The output file format pseudo-printf() string differs from the System V version of wc:

           "%7d%7d%7d %s\n"

       which produces possibly ambiguous and unparsable results for very large files, as it assumes no  number  shall
       exceed six digits.

       Some  historical  implementations use only <space>, <tab>, and <newline> as word separators. The equivalent of
       the ISO C standard isspace() function is more appropriate.

       The −c option stands for ``character'' count, even though it counts bytes.  This stems from the sometimes  er‐
       roneous historical view that bytes and characters are the same size. Due to international requirements, the −m
       option (reminiscent of ``multi-byte'') was added to obtain actual character counts.

       Early  proposals  only  specified the results when input files were text files. The current specification more
       closely matches historical practice. (Bytes, words, and <newline> characters are counted  separately  and  the
       results are written when an end-of-file is detected.)

       Historical implementations of the wc utility only accepted one argument to specify the options −c, −l, and −w.
       Some  of  them also had multiple occurrences of an option cause the corresponding count to be written multiple
       times and had the order of specification of the options affect the order of the fields on output, but did  not
       document  either  of  these.  Because common usage either specifies no options or only one option, and because
       none of this was documented, the changes required by this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 should not break many histor‐
       ical applications (and do not break any historical conforming applications).

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       cksum

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Section  12.2,  Utility  Syntax
       Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                                  WC(1P)
