WCRTOMB(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   WCRTOMB(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcrtomb — convert a wide-character code to a character (restartable)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t wcrtomb(char *restrict s, wchar_t wc, mbstate_t *restrict ps);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       If s is a null pointer, the wcrtomb() function shall be equivalent to the call:

           wcrtomb(buf, L'\0', ps)

       where buf is an internal buffer.

       If s is not a null pointer, the wcrtomb() function shall determine the number of bytes needed to represent the
       character that corresponds to the wide character given by wc (including any shift sequences),  and  store  the
       resulting  bytes  in the array whose first element is pointed to by s.  At most {MB_CUR_MAX} bytes are stored.
       If wc is a null wide character, a null byte shall be stored, preceded by any shift sequence needed to  restore
       the initial shift state. The resulting state described shall be the initial conversion state.

       If ps is a null pointer, the wcrtomb() function shall use its own internal mbstate_t object, which is initial‐
       ized  at  program  start-up  to the initial conversion state. Otherwise, the mbstate_t object pointed to by ps
       shall be used to completely describe the current conversion state of the associated  character  sequence.  The
       implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 calls wcrtomb().

       The wcrtomb() function need not be thread-safe if called with a NULL ps argument.

       The behavior of this function shall be affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale.

       The wcrtomb() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       The  wcrtomb()  function  shall return the number of bytes stored in the array object (including any shift se‐
       quences). When wc is not a valid wide character, an encoding error shall occur. In  this  case,  the  function
       shall  store  the value of the macro [EILSEQ] in errno and shall return (size_t)−1; the conversion state shall
       be undefined.

ERRORS
       The wcrtomb() function shall fail if:

       EILSEQ An invalid wide-character code is detected.

       The wcrtomb() function may fail if:

       EINVAL ps points to an object that contains an invalid conversion state.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mbsinit(), wcsrtombs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             WCRTOMB(3P)
