WCSDUP(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    WCSDUP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcsdup — duplicate a wide-character string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       wchar_t *wcsdup(const wchar_t *string);

DESCRIPTION
       The wcsdup() function is the wide-character equivalent of the strdup() function.

       The wcsdup() function shall return a pointer to a new wide-character string, allocated as if by a call to mal‐
       loc(),  which  is  the  duplicate  of the wide-character string string.  The returned pointer can be passed to
       free().  A null pointer is returned if the new wide-character string cannot be created.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the wcsdup() function shall return a pointer to the newly allocated wide-character
       string. Otherwise, it shall return a null pointer and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The wcsdup() function shall fail if:

       ENOMEM Memory large enough for the duplicate string could not be allocated.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       For functions that allocate memory as if by malloc(), the application should release such memory when it is no
       longer required by a call to free().  For wcsdup(), this is the return value.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       free(), strdup(), wcscpy()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              WCSDUP(3P)
