WCSFTIME(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  WCSFTIME(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcsftime — convert date and time to a wide-character string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t wcsftime(wchar_t *restrict wcs, size_t maxsize,
           const wchar_t *restrict format, const struct tm *restrict timeptr);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The wcsftime() function shall be equivalent to the strftime() function, except that:

        *  The argument wcs points to the initial element of an array of wide characters  into  which  the  generated
           output is to be placed.

        *  The argument maxsize indicates the maximum number of wide characters to be placed in the output array.

        *  The  argument  format  is a wide-character string and the conversion specifications are replaced by corre‐
           sponding sequences of wide characters.

        *  The return value indicates the number of wide characters placed in the output array.

       If copying takes place between objects that overlap, the behavior is undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       If the total number of resulting wide-character codes including the terminating null wide-character code is no
       more than maxsize, wcsftime() shall return the number of wide-character codes placed into the array pointed to
       by wcs, not including the terminating null wide-character code. Otherwise, zero is returned and  the  contents
       of the array are unspecified.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       strftime()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            WCSFTIME(3P)
