WCSLEN(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    WCSLEN(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcslen, wcsnlen — get length of a fixed-sized wide-character string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t wcslen(const wchar_t *ws);
       size_t wcsnlen(const wchar_t *ws, size_t maxlen);

DESCRIPTION
       For  wcslen(): The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict between the requirements described here  and  the  ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  wcslen()  function shall compute the number of wide-character codes in the wide-character string to which
       ws points, not including the terminating null wide-character code.

       The wcsnlen() function shall compute the smaller of the number of wide characters in the string  to  which  ws
       points,  not including the terminating null wide-character code, and the value of maxlen.  The wcsnlen() func‐
       tion shall never examine more than the first maxlen characters of the wide-character string pointed to by ws.

RETURN VALUE
       The wcslen() function shall return the length of ws.

       The wcsnlen() function shall return an integer containing the smaller of either the length of the wide-charac‐
       ter string pointed to by ws or maxlen.

       No return values are reserved to indicate an error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       strlen()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              WCSLEN(3P)
