WCSNCMP(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   WCSNCMP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcsncmp — compare part of two wide-character strings

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       int wcsncmp(const wchar_t *ws1, const wchar_t *ws2, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The wcsncmp() function shall compare not more than n wide-character codes (wide-character codes that follow  a
       null wide-character code are not compared) from the array pointed to by ws1 to the array pointed to by ws2.

       The  sign  of  a non-zero return value shall be determined by the sign of the difference between the values of
       the first pair of wide-character codes that differ in the objects being compared.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, wcsncmp() shall return an integer greater than, equal to, or less than 0,  if  the
       possibly  null-terminated  array  pointed to by ws1 is greater than, equal to, or less than the possibly null-
       terminated array pointed to by ws2, respectively.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       wcscasecmp(), wcscmp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             WCSNCMP(3P)
