WCSRTOMBS(3P)                                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                                 WCSRTOMBS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcsnrtombs, wcsrtombs — convert a wide-character string to a character string (restartable)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t wcsnrtombs(char *restrict dst, const wchar_t **restrict src,
           size_t nwc, size_t len, mbstate_t *restrict ps);
       size_t wcsrtombs(char *restrict dst, const wchar_t **restrict src,
           size_t len, mbstate_t *restrict ps);

DESCRIPTION
       For  wcsrtombs():  The  functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any
       conflict between the requirements described here and the ISO C  standard  is  unintentional.  This  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  wcsrtombs()  function shall convert a sequence of wide characters from the array indirectly pointed to by
       src into a sequence of corresponding characters, beginning in the conversion state  described  by  the  object
       pointed  to by ps.  If dst is not a null pointer, the converted characters shall then be stored into the array
       pointed to by dst.  Conversion continues up to and including a terminating null wide  character,  which  shall
       also be stored. Conversion shall stop earlier in the following cases:

        *  When a code is reached that does not correspond to a valid character

        *  When  the next character would exceed the limit of len total bytes to be stored in the array pointed to by
           dst (and dst is not a null pointer)

       Each conversion shall take place as if by a call to the wcrtomb() function.

       If dst is not a null pointer, the pointer object pointed to by src shall be assigned either a null pointer (if
       conversion stopped due to reaching a terminating null wide character) or the address just past the  last  wide
       character converted (if any). If conversion stopped due to reaching a terminating null wide character, the re‐
       sulting state described shall be the initial conversion state.

       If  ps  is a null pointer, the wcsrtombs() function shall use its own internal mbstate_t object, which is ini‐
       tialized at program start-up to the initial conversion state. Otherwise, the mbstate_t object pointed to by ps
       shall be used to completely describe the current conversion state of the associated character sequence.

       The wcsnrtombs() and wcsrtombs() functions need not be thread-safe if called with a NULL ps argument.

       The wcsnrtombs() function shall be equivalent to the wcsrtombs() function, except that the conversion is  lim‐
       ited to the first nwc wide characters.

       The wcsrtombs() function shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       The behavior of these functions shall be affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale.

       The  implementation  shall  behave as if no function defined in System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2008 calls
       these functions.

RETURN VALUE
       If conversion stops because a code is reached that does not correspond to a valid character, an encoding error
       occurs. In this case, these functions shall store the  value  of  the  macro  [EILSEQ]  in  errno  and  return
       (size_t)−1; the conversion state is undefined.  Otherwise, these functions shall return the number of bytes in
       the resulting character sequence, not including the terminating null (if any).

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EILSEQ A wide-character code does not correspond to a valid character.

       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL ps points to an object that contains an invalid conversion state.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mbsinit(), wcrtomb()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                           WCSRTOMBS(3P)
