WCSTOMBS(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  WCSTOMBS(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcstombs — convert a wide-character string to a character string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       size_t wcstombs(char *restrict s, const wchar_t *restrict pwcs,
           size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The wcstombs() function shall convert the sequence of wide-character codes that are in the array pointed to by
       pwcs into a sequence of characters that begins in the initial shift state and store these characters into  the
       array  pointed  to  by s, stopping if a character would exceed the limit of n total bytes or if a null byte is
       stored. Each wide-character code shall be converted as if by a call to wctomb(), except that the  shift  state
       of wctomb() shall not be affected.

       The behavior of this function shall be affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale.

       No  more  than n bytes shall be modified in the array pointed to by s.  If copying takes place between objects
       that overlap, the behavior is undefined.  If s is a null pointer, wcstombs() shall return the length  required
       to convert the entire array regardless of the value of n, but no values are stored.

RETURN VALUE
       If  a  wide-character  code is encountered that does not correspond to a valid character (of one or more bytes
       each), wcstombs() shall return (size_t)−1. Otherwise, wcstombs() shall return the number of  bytes  stored  in
       the  character  array,  not including any terminating null byte. The array shall not be null-terminated if the
       value returned is n.

ERRORS
       The wcstombs() function shall fail if:

       EILSEQ A wide-character code does not correspond to a valid character.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mblen(), mbtowc(), mbstowcs(), wctomb()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            WCSTOMBS(3P)
