WCSTOUL(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   WCSTOUL(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcstoul, wcstoull — convert a wide-character string to an unsigned long

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       unsigned long wcstoul(const wchar_t *restrict nptr,
           wchar_t **restrict endptr, int base);
       unsigned long long wcstoull(const wchar_t *restrict nptr,
           wchar_t **restrict endptr, int base);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The wcstoul() and wcstoull() functions shall convert the initial portion of the wide-character string  pointed
       to  by  nptr to unsigned long and unsigned long long representation, respectively. First, they shall decompose
       the input wide-character string into three parts:

        1. An initial, possibly empty, sequence of white-space wide-character codes (as specified by iswspace())

        2. A subject sequence interpreted as an integer represented in some radix determined by the value of base

        3. A final wide-character string of one or more unrecognized wide-character codes, including the  terminating
           null wide-character code of the input wide-character string

       Then they shall attempt to convert the subject sequence to an unsigned integer, and return the result.

       If  base  is  0,  the  expected form of the subject sequence is that of a decimal constant, octal constant, or
       hexadecimal constant, any of which may be preceded by a '+' or '−' sign. A decimal constant begins with a non-
       zero digit, and consists of a sequence of decimal digits. An octal constant consists of the prefix '0' option‐
       ally followed by a sequence of the digits '0' to '7' only. A hexadecimal constant consists of the prefix 0x or
       0X followed by a sequence of the decimal digits and letters 'a' (or 'A') to 'f' (or 'F') with values 10 to  15
       respectively.

       If  the  value of base is between 2 and 36, the expected form of the subject sequence is a sequence of letters
       and digits representing an integer with the radix specified by base, optionally preceded by a '+' or '−' sign,
       but not including an integer suffix. The letters from 'a' (or 'A') to 'z' (or 'Z') inclusive are ascribed  the
       values  10  to  35;  only  letters whose ascribed values are less than that of base shall be permitted. If the
       value of base is 16, the wide-character codes 0x or 0X may optionally precede the sequence of letters and dig‐
       its, following the sign if present.

       The subject sequence is defined as the longest initial subsequence of the input wide-character string,  start‐
       ing  with  the  first wide-character code that is not white space and is of the expected form. The subject se‐
       quence contains no wide-character codes if the input wide-character string is empty or  consists  entirely  of
       white-space  wide-character codes, or if the first wide-character code that is not white space is other than a
       sign or a permissible letter or digit.

       If the subject sequence has the expected form and base is 0, the sequence  of  wide-character  codes  starting
       with  the  first  digit  shall be interpreted as an integer constant. If the subject sequence has the expected
       form and the value of base is between 2 and 36, it shall be used as the base for conversion, ascribing to each
       letter its value as given above. If the subject sequence begins with a minus-sign, the  value  resulting  from
       the  conversion  shall  be negated. A pointer to the final wide-character string shall be stored in the object
       pointed to by endptr, provided that endptr is not a null pointer.

       In other than the C or POSIX locales, other implementation-defined subject sequences may be accepted.

       If the subject sequence is empty or does not have the expected form, no conversion  shall  be  performed;  the
       value of nptr shall be stored in the object pointed to by endptr, provided that endptr is not a null pointer.

       These functions shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       Since  0,  {ULONG_MAX}, and {ULLONG_MAX} are returned on error and 0 is also a valid return on success, an ap‐
       plication wishing to check for error situations should set errno to 0, then call wcstoul() or wcstoull(), then
       check errno.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the wcstoul() and wcstoull() functions shall return the converted value,  if  any.
       If  no  conversion could be performed, 0 shall be returned and errno may be set to indicate the error.  If the
       correct value is outside the range of representable values, {ULONG_MAX} or {ULLONG_MAX} respectively shall  be
       returned and errno set to [ERANGE].

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of base is not supported.

       ERANGE The value to be returned is not representable.

       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL No conversion could be performed.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fscanf(), iswalpha(), wcstod(), wcstol()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             WCSTOUL(3P)
