WCSTOK(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    WCSTOK(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcstok — split a wide-character string into tokens

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       wchar_t *wcstok(wchar_t *restrict ws1, const wchar_t *restrict ws2,
           wchar_t **restrict ptr);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       A sequence of calls to wcstok() shall break the wide-character string pointed to by ws1 into a sequence of to‐
       kens, each of which shall be delimited by a wide-character code from the wide-character string pointed  to  by
       ws2.   The  ptr  argument  points  to a caller-provided wchar_t pointer into which the wcstok() function shall
       store information necessary for it to continue scanning the same wide-character string.

       The first call in the sequence has ws1 as its first argument, and is followed by calls with a null pointer  as
       their first argument. The separator string pointed to by ws2 may be different from call to call.

       The  first  call  in the sequence shall search the wide-character string pointed to by ws1 for the first wide-
       character code that is not contained in the current separator string pointed to by ws2.  If no such wide-char‐
       acter code is found, then there are no tokens in the wide-character string pointed  to  by  ws1  and  wcstok()
       shall return a null pointer. If such a wide-character code is found, it shall be the start of the first token.

       The  wcstok() function shall then search from there for a wide-character code that is contained in the current
       separator string. If no such wide-character code is found, the current token extends to the end of  the  wide-
       character string pointed to by ws1, and subsequent searches for a token shall return a null pointer. If such a
       wide-character  code  is found, it shall be overwritten by a null wide character, which terminates the current
       token. The wcstok() function shall save a pointer to the following wide-character code, from  which  the  next
       search for a token shall start.

       Each  subsequent  call, with a null pointer as the value of the first argument, shall start searching from the
       saved pointer and behave as described above.

       The implementation shall behave as if no function calls wcstok().

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, the wcstok() function shall return a pointer to the first wide-character code of a
       token. Otherwise, if there is no token, wcstok() shall return a null pointer.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              WCSTOK(3P)
