WCSTOD(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    WCSTOD(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcstod, wcstof, wcstold — convert a wide-character string to a double-precision number

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       double wcstod(const wchar_t *restrict nptr, wchar_t **restrict endptr);
       float wcstof(const wchar_t *restrict nptr, wchar_t **restrict endptr);
       long double wcstold(const wchar_t *restrict nptr,
           wchar_t **restrict endptr);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall convert the initial portion of the wide-character string pointed to by nptr  to  double,
       float,  and  long  double  representation,  respectively. First, they shall decompose the input wide-character
       string into three parts:

        1. An initial, possibly empty, sequence of white-space wide-character codes (as specified by iswspace())

        2. A subject sequence interpreted as a floating-point constant or representing infinity or NaN

        3. A final wide-character string of one or more unrecognized wide-character codes, including the  terminating
           null wide-character code of the input wide-character string

       Then they shall attempt to convert the subject sequence to a floating-point number, and return the result.

       The expected form of the subject sequence is an optional '+' or '−' sign, then one of the following:

        *  A  non-empty sequence of decimal digits optionally containing a radix character; then an optional exponent
           part consisting of the wide character 'e' or the wide character 'E', optionally followed by a '+'  or  '−'
           wide character, and then followed by one or more decimal digits

        *  A  0x or 0X, then a non-empty sequence of hexadecimal digits optionally containing a radix character; then
           an optional binary exponent part consisting of the wide character 'p' or the wide character  'P',  option‐
           ally followed by a '+' or '−' wide character, and then followed by one or more decimal digits

        *  One of INF or INFINITY, or any other wide string equivalent except for case

        *  One of NAN or NAN(n-wchar-sequenceopt), or any other wide string ignoring case in the NAN part, where:

               n-wchar-sequence:
                   digit
                   nondigit
                   n-wchar-sequence digit
                   n-wchar-sequence nondigit

       The subject sequence is defined as the longest initial subsequence of the input wide string, starting with the
       first  non-white-space  wide  character,  that  is of the expected form. The subject sequence contains no wide
       characters if the input wide string is not of the expected form.

       If the subject sequence has the expected form for a floating-point number, the  sequence  of  wide  characters
       starting with the first digit or the radix character (whichever occurs first) shall be interpreted as a float‐
       ing  constant according to the rules of the C language, except that the radix character shall be used in place
       of a period, and that if neither an exponent part nor a radix character appears in  a  decimal  floating-point
       number,  or if a binary exponent part does not appear in a hexadecimal floating-point number, an exponent part
       of the appropriate type with value zero shall be assumed to follow the last digit in the string. If  the  sub‐
       ject  sequence  begins  with  a minus-sign, the sequence shall be interpreted as negated. A wide-character se‐
       quence INF or INFINITY shall be interpreted as an infinity, if representable in the return type, else as if it
       were a floating constant that is too large for the range of the return type. A wide-character sequence NAN  or
       NAN(n-wchar-sequenceopt)  shall  be interpreted as a quiet NaN, if supported in the return type, else as if it
       were a subject sequence part that does not have the expected form; the meaning of the n-wchar sequences is im‐
       plementation-defined. A pointer to the final wide string shall be stored in the object pointed to  by  endptr,
       provided that endptr is not a null pointer.

       If  the  subject  sequence  has  the  hexadecimal  form and FLT_RADIX is a power of 2, the conversion shall be
       rounded in an implementation-defined manner.

       The radix character shall be as defined in the current locale (category LC_NUMERIC).  In the POSIX locale,  or
       in a locale where the radix character is not defined, the radix character shall default to a <period> ('.').

       In other than the C or POSIX locales, other implementation-defined subject sequences may be accepted.

       If  the  subject  sequence  is empty or does not have the expected form, no conversion shall be performed; the
       value of nptr shall be stored in the object pointed to by endptr, provided that endptr is not a null pointer.

       These functions shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       Since 0 is returned on error and is also a valid return on success, an application wishing to check for  error
       situations should set errno to 0, then call wcstod(), wcstof(), or wcstold(), then check errno.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion, these functions shall return the converted value. If no conversion could be per‐
       formed, 0 shall be returned and errno may be set to [EINVAL].

       If the correct value is outside the range of representable values, ±HUGE_VAL, ±HUGE_VALF, or ±HUGE_VALL  shall
       be returned (according to the sign of the value), and errno shall be set to [ERANGE].

       If the correct value would cause underflow, a value whose magnitude is no greater than the smallest normalized
       positive number in the return type shall be returned and errno set to [ERANGE].

ERRORS
       The wcstod() function shall fail if:

       ERANGE The value to be returned would cause overflow or underflow.

       The wcstod() function may fail if:

       EINVAL No conversion could be performed.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If  the subject sequence has the hexadecimal form and FLT_RADIX is not a power of 2, and the result is not ex‐
       actly representable, the result should be one of the two numbers in the appropriate internal format  that  are
       adjacent  to  the  hexadecimal  floating source value, with the extra stipulation that the error should have a
       correct sign for the current rounding direction.

       If the subject sequence has the decimal form and at most DECIMAL_DIG (defined in <float.h>)  significant  dig‐
       its, the result should be correctly rounded. If the subject sequence D has the decimal form and more than DEC‐
       IMAL_DIG  significant  digits,  consider the two bounding, adjacent decimal strings L and U, both having DECI‐
       MAL_DIG significant digits, such that the values of L, D, and U satisfy "L<=D<=U".  The result should  be  one
       of  the  (equal or adjacent) values that would be obtained by correctly rounding L and U according to the cur‐
       rent rounding direction, with the extra stipulation that the error with respect to D  should  have  a  correct
       sign for the current rounding direction.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fscanf(), iswspace(), localeconv(), setlocale(), wcstol()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 7, Locale, <float.h>, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              WCSTOD(3P)
