WCSWIDTH(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  WCSWIDTH(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcswidth — number of column positions of a wide-character string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       int wcswidth(const wchar_t *pwcs, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The wcswidth() function shall determine the number of column positions required for n wide-character codes (or
       fewer  than  n wide-character codes if a null wide-character code is encountered before n wide-character codes
       are exhausted) in the string pointed to by pwcs.

RETURN VALUE
       The wcswidth() function either shall return 0 (if pwcs points to a null wide-character code),  or  return  the
       number  of  column  positions to be occupied by the wide-character string pointed to by pwcs, or return −1 (if
       any of the first n wide-character codes in the wide-character string pointed to by pwcs  is  not  a  printable
       wide-character code).

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       This  function  was  removed from the final ISO/IEC 9899:1990/Amendment 1:1995 (E), and the return value for a
       non-printable wide character is not specified.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       wcwidth()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 3.103, Column Position, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            WCSWIDTH(3P)
