WCSXFRM(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   WCSXFRM(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcsxfrm, wcsxfrm_l — wide-character string transformation

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t wcsxfrm(wchar_t *restrict ws1, const wchar_t *restrict ws2,
           size_t n);
       size_t wcsxfrm_l(wchar_t *restrict ws1, const wchar_t *restrict ws2,
           size_t n, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For wcsxfrm(): The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any con‐
       flict  between  the  requirements  described  here  and  the  ISO C  standard is unintentional. This volume of
       POSIX.1‐2008 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The wcsxfrm() and wcsxfrm_l() functions shall transform the wide-character string pointed to by ws2 and  place
       the  resulting  wide-character string into the array pointed to by ws1.  The transformation shall be such that
       if wcscmp() is applied to two transformed wide strings, it shall return a value greater  than,  equal  to,  or
       less  than  0, corresponding to the result of wcscoll() and wcscoll_l() applied to the same two original wide-
       character strings, and the same LC_COLLATE category of the current locale or the locale object locale, respec‐
       tively. No more than n wide-character codes shall be placed into the resulting array pointed to  by  ws1,  in‐
       cluding the terminating null wide-character code. If n is 0, ws1 is permitted to be a null pointer. If copying
       takes place between objects that overlap, the behavior is undefined.

       The wcsxfrm() and wcsxfrm_l() functions shall not change the setting of errno if successful.

       Since  no  return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application wishing to check for error situations
       should set errno to 0, then call wcsxfrm() or wcsxfrm_l(), then check errno.

       The behavior is undefined if the locale argument to wcsxfrm_l() is the special locale object  LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
       or is not a valid locale object handle.

RETURN VALUE
       The  wcsxfrm() and wcsxfrm_l() functions shall return the length of the transformed wide-character string (not
       including the terminating null wide-character code). If the value returned is n or more, the contents  of  the
       array pointed to by ws1 are unspecified.

       On  error,  the wcsxfrm() and wcsxfrm_l() functions may set errno, but no return value is reserved to indicate
       an error.

ERRORS
       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL The wide-character string pointed to by ws2 contains wide-character codes outside  the  domain  of  the
              collating sequence.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  transformation function is such that two transformed wide-character strings can be ordered by wcscmp() as
       appropriate to collating sequence information in the current locale (category LC_COLLATE).

       The fact that when n is 0 ws1 is permitted to be a null pointer is useful to determine the size of the ws1 ar‐
       ray prior to making the transformation.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       wcscmp(), wcscoll()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             WCSXFRM(3P)
