WCTOMB(3P)                                    POSIX Programmer's Manual                                    WCTOMB(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wctomb — convert a wide-character code to a character

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int wctomb(char *s, wchar_t wchar);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The wctomb() function shall determine the number of bytes needed to represent the character  corresponding  to
       the  wide-character  code  whose  value is wchar (including any change in the shift state). It shall store the
       character representation (possibly multiple bytes and any special bytes to change shift state)  in  the  array
       object  pointed  to by s (if s is not a null pointer). At most {MB_CUR_MAX} bytes shall be stored. If wchar is
       0, a null byte shall be stored, preceded by any shift sequence needed to restore the initial shift state,  and
       wctomb() shall be left in the initial shift state.

       The  behavior  of this function is affected by the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale. For a state-depen‐
       dent encoding, this function shall be placed into its initial state by a call for which its character  pointer
       argument,  s, is a null pointer. Subsequent calls with s as other than a null pointer shall cause the internal
       state of the function to be altered as necessary. A call with s as a null pointer shall cause this function to
       return a non-zero value if encodings have state dependency, and 0 otherwise. Changing  the  LC_CTYPE  category
       causes the shift state of this function to be unspecified.

       The wctomb() function need not be thread-safe.

       The implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 calls wctomb().

RETURN VALUE
       If  s is a null pointer, wctomb() shall return a non-zero or 0 value, if character encodings, respectively, do
       or do not have state-dependent encodings. If s is not a null pointer, wctomb() shall return −1 if the value of
       wchar does not correspond to a valid character, or return the number of bytes that  constitute  the  character
       corresponding to the value of wchar.

       In no case shall the value returned be greater than the value of the {MB_CUR_MAX} macro.

ERRORS
       The wctomb() function shall fail if:

       EILSEQ An invalid wide-character code is detected.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mblen(), mbtowc(), mbstowcs(), wcstombs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                              WCTOMB(3P)
