WCWIDTH(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   WCWIDTH(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcwidth — number of column positions of a wide-character code

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       int wcwidth(wchar_t wc);

DESCRIPTION
       The wcwidth() function shall determine the number of column positions required for the wide character wc.  The
       application shall ensure that the value of wc is a character representable as a wchar_t, and is a wide-charac‐
       ter code corresponding to a valid character in the current locale.

RETURN VALUE
       The  wcwidth()  function  shall either return 0 (if wc is a null wide-character code), or return the number of
       column positions to be occupied by the wide-character code wc, or return −1 (if wc does not  correspond  to  a
       printable wide-character code).

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       This  function  was  removed from the final ISO/IEC 9899:1990/Amendment 1:1995 (E), and the return value for a
       non-printable wide character is not specified.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       wcswidth()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             WCWIDTH(3P)
