WMEMCMP(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                   WMEMCMP(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wmemcmp — compare wide characters in memory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       int wmemcmp(const wchar_t *ws1, const wchar_t *ws2, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The wmemcmp() function shall compare the first n wide characters of the object pointed to by ws1 to the  first
       n  wide  characters  of  the  object pointed to by ws2.  This function shall not be affected by locale and all
       wchar_t values shall be treated identically. The null wide character and wchar_t values not  corresponding  to
       valid characters shall not be treated specially.

       If  n is zero, the application shall ensure that ws1 and ws2 are valid pointers, and the function shall behave
       as if the two objects compare equal.

RETURN VALUE
       The wmemcmp() function shall return an integer greater than, equal to, or less than zero, respectively, as the
       object pointed to by ws1 is greater than, equal to, or less than the object pointed to by ws2.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       wmemchr(), wmemcpy(), wmemmove(), wmemset()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                             WMEMCMP(3P)
