WMEMMOVE(3P)                                  POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  WMEMMOVE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wmemmove — copy wide characters in memory with overlapping areas

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       wchar_t *wmemmove(wchar_t *ws1, const wchar_t *ws2, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality  described  on this reference page is aligned with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between
       the requirements described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 defers to
       the ISO C standard.

       The wmemmove() function shall copy n wide characters from the object pointed to by ws2 to the  object  pointed
       to  by  ws1.  Copying shall take place as if the n wide characters from the object pointed to by ws2 are first
       copied into a temporary array of n wide characters that does not overlap the objects pointed to by ws1 or ws2,
       and then the n wide characters from the temporary array are copied into the object pointed to by ws1.

       This function shall not be affected by locale and all wchar_t values shall be treated  identically.  The  null
       wide character and wchar_t values not corresponding to valid characters shall not be treated specially.

       If  n  is  zero, the application shall ensure that ws1 and ws2 are valid pointers, and the function shall copy
       zero wide characters.

RETURN VALUE
       The wmemmove() function shall return the value of ws1.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       wmemchr(), wmemcmp(), wmemcpy(), wmemset()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                            WMEMMOVE(3P)
