WRITE(1P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     WRITE(1P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       write — write to another user

SYNOPSIS
       write user_name [terminal]

DESCRIPTION
       The  write  utility  shall  read lines from the standard input and write them to the terminal of the specified
       user. When first invoked, it shall write the message:

           Message from sender-login-id (sending-terminal) [date]...

       to user_name.  When it has successfully completed the connection, the sender's terminal shall be alerted twice
       to indicate that what the sender is typing is being written to the recipient's terminal.

       If the recipient wants to reply, this can be accomplished by typing:

           write sender-login-id [sending-terminal]

       upon receipt of the initial message. Whenever a line of input as delimited by an NL, EOF, or EOL special char‐
       acter (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface) is accumulated
       while in canonical input mode, the accumulated data shall be written on the other user's terminal.  Characters
       shall be processed as follows:

        *  Typing <alert> shall write the <alert> character to the recipient's terminal.

        *  Typing  the  erase  and  kill characters shall affect the sender's terminal in the manner described by the
           termios interface in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface.

        *  Typing the interrupt or end-of-file characters shall cause write to write an appropriate message  ("EOT\n"
           in the POSIX locale) to the recipient's terminal and exit.

        *  Typing  characters from LC_CTYPE classifications print or space shall cause those characters to be sent to
           the recipient's terminal.

        *  When and only when the stty iexten local mode is enabled, the existence and processing of additional  spe‐
           cial control characters and multi-byte or single-byte functions is implementation-defined.

        *  Typing other non-printable characters shall cause implementation-defined sequences of printable characters
           to be written to the recipient's terminal.

       To write to a user who is logged in more than once, the terminal argument can be used to indicate which termi‐
       nal  to  write  to; otherwise, the recipient's terminal is selected in an implementation-defined manner and an
       informational message is written to the sender's standard output, indicating which terminal was chosen.

       Permission to be a recipient of a write message can be denied or granted by use of the mesg utility.  However,
       a  user's  privilege  may  further  constrain the domain of accessibility of other users' terminals. The write
       utility shall fail when the user lacks appropriate privileges to perform the requested action.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       user_name Login name of the person to whom the message shall be written. The  application  shall  ensure  that
                 this operand is of the form returned by the who utility.

       terminal  Terminal identification in the same format provided by the who utility.

STDIN
       Lines to be copied to the recipient's terminal are read from standard input.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of write:

       LANG      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null. (See the Base
                 Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2008, Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence
                 of internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other internationalization  vari‐
                 ables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale  for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text data as characters (for
                 example, single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input files). If  the  re‐
                 cipient's locale does not use an LC_CTYPE equivalent to the sender's, the results are undefined.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine  the  locale  that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
                 written to standard error and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       If an interrupt signal is received, write shall write an appropriate message on the recipient's  terminal  and
       exit with a status of zero. It shall take the standard action for all other signals.

STDOUT
       An informational message shall be written to standard output if a recipient is logged in more than once.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The recipient's terminal is used for output.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    The addressed user is not logged on or the addressed user denies permission.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The talk utility is considered by some users to be a more usable utility on full-screen terminals.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  write  utility  was  included  in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 since it can be implemented on all terminal
       types. The standard developers considered the talk utility, which cannot be implemented on certain  terminals,
       to be a ``better'' communications interface. Both of these programs are in widespread use on historical imple‐
       mentations. Therefore, the standard developers decided that both utilities should be specified.

       The  format of the terminal name is unspecified, but the descriptions of ps, talk, who, and write require that
       they all use or accept the same format.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mesg, talk, who

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Chapter  11,  General  Terminal
       Interface

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this  text  are  reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,  Inc  and  The
       Open  Group.   (This  is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event of any dis‐
       crepancy between this version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the  original  IEEE  and  The
       Open   Group   Standard   is   the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can  be  obtained  online  at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the conversion of the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such  errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               WRITE(1P)
