WRITE(3P)                                     POSIX Programmer's Manual                                     WRITE(3P)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is  part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface may
       differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface  may  not
       be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       pwrite, write — write on a file

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       ssize_t pwrite(int fildes, const void *buf, size_t nbyte,
           off_t offset);
       ssize_t write(int fildes, const void *buf, size_t nbyte);

DESCRIPTION
       The  write() function shall attempt to write nbyte bytes from the buffer pointed to by buf to the file associ‐
       ated with the open file descriptor, fildes.

       Before any action described below is taken, and if nbyte is zero and the file is a regular file,  the  write()
       function  may  detect and return errors as described below. In the absence of errors, or if error detection is
       not performed, the write() function shall return zero and have no other results. If nbyte is zero and the file
       is not a regular file, the results are unspecified.

       On a regular file or other file capable of seeking, the actual writing of data shall proceed from the position
       in the file indicated by the file offset associated with fildes.  Before successful return from  write(),  the
       file  offset  shall be incremented by the number of bytes actually written. On a regular file, if the position
       of the last byte written is greater than or equal to the length of the file, the length of the file  shall  be
       set to this position plus one.

       On  a file not capable of seeking, writing shall always take place starting at the current position. The value
       of a file offset associated with such a device is undefined.

       If the O_APPEND flag of the file status flags is set, the file offset shall be set to  the  end  of  the  file
       prior  to each write and no intervening file modification operation shall occur between changing the file off‐
       set and the write operation.

       If a write() requests that more bytes be written than there is room for (for example, the file size  limit  of
       the  process  or  the physical end of a medium), only as many bytes as there is room for shall be written. For
       example, suppose there is space for 20 bytes more in a file before reaching a limit. A write of 512 bytes will
       return 20. The next write of a non-zero number of bytes would give a failure return (except as noted below).

       If the request would cause the file size to exceed the soft file size limit for the process and  there  is  no
       room  for  any  bytes  to be written, the request shall fail and the implementation shall generate the SIGXFSZ
       signal for the thread.

       If write() is interrupted by a signal before it writes any data, it shall return −1 with errno set to [EINTR].

       If write() is interrupted by a signal after it successfully writes some data, it shall return  the  number  of
       bytes written.

       If the value of nbyte is greater than {SSIZE_MAX}, the result is implementation-defined.

       After a write() to a regular file has successfully returned:

        *  Any successful read() from each byte position in the file that was modified by that write shall return the
           data specified by the write() for that position until such byte positions are again modified.

        *  Any subsequent successful write() to the same byte position in the file shall overwrite that file data.

       Write  requests to a pipe or FIFO shall be handled in the same way as a regular file with the following excep‐
       tions:

        *  There is no file offset associated with a pipe, hence each write request shall append to the  end  of  the
           pipe.

        *  Write  requests  of {PIPE_BUF} bytes or less shall not be interleaved with data from other processes doing
           writes on the same pipe. Writes of greater than {PIPE_BUF} bytes may have data interleaved,  on  arbitrary
           boundaries, with writes by other processes, whether or not the O_NONBLOCK flag of the file status flags is
           set.

        *  If  the  O_NONBLOCK flag is clear, a write request may cause the thread to block, but on normal completion
           it shall return nbyte.

        *  If the O_NONBLOCK flag is set, write() requests shall be handled differently, in the following ways:

           --  The write() function shall not block the thread.

           --  A write request for {PIPE_BUF} or fewer bytes shall have the following effect: if there is  sufficient
               space  available  in  the pipe, write() shall transfer all the data and return the number of bytes re‐
               quested.  Otherwise, write() shall transfer no data and return −1 with errno set to [EAGAIN].

           --  A write request for more than {PIPE_BUF} bytes shall cause one of the following:

               --  When at least one byte can be written, transfer what it can and return the number of  bytes  writ‐
                   ten.  When  all data previously written to the pipe is read, it shall transfer at least {PIPE_BUF}
                   bytes.

               --  When no data can be written, transfer no data, and return −1 with errno set to [EAGAIN].

       When attempting to write to a file descriptor (other than a pipe or FIFO) that  supports  non-blocking  writes
       and cannot accept the data immediately:

        *  If the O_NONBLOCK flag is clear, write() shall block the calling thread until the data can be accepted.

        *  If  the  O_NONBLOCK  flag  is set, write() shall not block the thread. If some data can be written without
           blocking the thread, write() shall write what it can and return the number of bytes  written.   Otherwise,
           it shall return −1 and set errno to [EAGAIN].

       Upon successful completion, where nbyte is greater than 0, write() shall mark for update the last data modifi‐
       cation  and last file status change timestamps of the file, and if the file is a regular file, the S_ISUID and
       S_ISGID bits of the file mode may be cleared.

       For regular files, no data transfer shall occur past the offset maximum established in the open file  descrip‐
       tion associated with fildes.

       If fildes refers to a socket, write() shall be equivalent to send() with no flags set.

       If the O_DSYNC bit has been set, write I/O operations on the file descriptor shall complete as defined by syn‐
       chronized I/O data integrity completion.

       If  the O_SYNC bit has been set, write I/O operations on the file descriptor shall complete as defined by syn‐
       chronized I/O file integrity completion.

       If fildes refers to a shared memory object, the result of the write() function is unspecified.

       If fildes refers to a typed memory object, the result of the write() function is unspecified.

       If fildes refers to a STREAM, the operation of write() shall be determined by the values of  the  minimum  and
       maximum  nbyte  range  (packet size) accepted by the STREAM. These values are determined by the topmost STREAM
       module. If nbyte falls within the packet size range, nbyte bytes shall be written.  If  nbyte  does  not  fall
       within  the  range  and the minimum packet size value is 0, write() shall break the buffer into maximum packet
       size segments prior to sending the data downstream (the last segment may contain less than the maximum  packet
       size).  If nbyte does not fall within the range and the minimum value is non-zero, write() shall fail with er‐
       rno set to [ERANGE].  Writing a zero-length buffer (nbyte is 0) to a STREAMS device sends 0 bytes with  0  re‐
       turned.  However,  writing  a zero-length buffer to a STREAMS-based pipe or FIFO sends no message and 0 is re‐
       turned. The process may issue I_SWROPT ioctl() to enable zero-length messages to be sent across  the  pipe  or
       FIFO.

       When  writing  to a STREAM, data messages are created with a priority band of 0. When writing to a STREAM that
       is not a pipe or FIFO:

        *  If O_NONBLOCK is clear, and the STREAM cannot accept data (the STREAM write queue is full due to  internal
           flow control conditions), write() shall block until data can be accepted.

        *  If O_NONBLOCK is set and the STREAM cannot accept data, write() shall return −1 and set errno to [EAGAIN].

        *  If  O_NONBLOCK is set and part of the buffer has been written while a condition in which the STREAM cannot
           accept additional data occurs, write() shall terminate and return the number of bytes written.

       In addition, write() shall fail if the STREAM head has processed an asynchronous error  before  the  call.  In
       this case, the value of errno does not reflect the result of write(), but reflects the prior error.

       The pwrite() function shall be equivalent to write(), except that it writes into a given position and does not
       change  the file offset (regardless of whether O_APPEND is set). The first three arguments to pwrite() are the
       same as write() with the addition of a fourth argument offset for the desired position inside the file. An at‐
       tempt to perform a pwrite() on a file that is incapable of seeking shall result in an error.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, these functions shall return the number of bytes actually written to the file  as‐
       sociated with fildes.  This number shall never be greater than nbyte.  Otherwise, −1 shall be returned and er‐
       rno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       These functions shall fail if:

       EAGAIN The  file is neither a pipe, nor a FIFO, nor a socket, the O_NONBLOCK flag is set for the file descrip‐
              tor, and the thread would be delayed in the write() operation.

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor open for writing.

       EFBIG  An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the implementation-defined maximum file  size  or  the
              file size limit of the process, and there was no room for any bytes to be written.

       EFBIG  The file is a regular file, nbyte is greater than 0, and the starting position is greater than or equal
              to the offset maximum established in the open file description associated with fildes.

       EINTR  The write operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no data was transferred.

       EIO    The  process is a member of a background process group attempting to write to its controlling terminal,
              TOSTOP is set, the calling thread is not blocking SIGTTOU, the process is not ignoring SIGTTOU, and the
              process group of the process is orphaned. This error may also be returned under  implementation-defined
              conditions.

       ENOSPC There was no free space remaining on the device containing the file.

       ERANGE The transfer request size was outside the range supported by the STREAMS file associated with fildes.

       The pwrite() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The file is a regular file or block special file, and the offset argument is negative. The file pointer
              shall remain unchanged.

       ESPIPE The file is a pipe, FIFO, or socket.

       The write() function shall fail if:

       EAGAIN The file is a pipe or FIFO, the O_NONBLOCK flag is set for the file descriptor, and the thread would be
              delayed in the write operation.

       EAGAIN or EWOULDBLOCK
              The  file  is a socket, the O_NONBLOCK flag is set for the file descriptor, and the thread would be de‐
              layed in the write operation.

       ECONNRESET
              A write was attempted on a socket that is not connected.

       EPIPE  An attempt is made to write to a pipe or FIFO that is not open for reading by any process, or that only
              has one end open. A SIGPIPE signal shall also be sent to the thread.

       EPIPE  A write was attempted on a socket that is shut down for writing, or is no longer connected. In the lat‐
              ter case, if the socket is of type SOCK_STREAM, a SIGPIPE signal shall also be sent to the thread.

       These functions may fail if:

       EINVAL The STREAM or multiplexer referenced by fildes is linked (directly or  indirectly)  downstream  from  a
              multiplexer.

       EIO    A physical I/O error has occurred.

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.

       ENXIO  A request was made of a nonexistent device, or the request was outside the capabilities of the device.

       ENXIO  A hangup occurred on the STREAM being written to.

       A write to a STREAMS file may fail if an error message has been received at the STREAM head. In this case, er‐
       rno is set to the value included in the error message.

       The write() function may fail if:

       EACCES A write was attempted on a socket and the calling process does not have appropriate privileges.

       ENETDOWN
              A  write  was  attempted  on  a socket and the local network interface used to reach the destination is
              down.

       ENETUNREACH
              A write was attempted on a socket and no route to the network is present.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Writing from a Buffer
       The following example writes data from the buffer pointed to by buf to the file associated with the  file  de‐
       scriptor fd.

           #include <sys/types.h>
           #include <string.h>
           ...
           char buf[20];
           size_t nbytes;
           ssize_t bytes_written;
           int fd;
           ...
           strcpy(buf, "This is a test\n");
           nbytes = strlen(buf);

           bytes_written = write(fd, buf, nbytes);
           ...

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       See also the RATIONALE section in read().

       An attempt to write to a pipe or FIFO has several major characteristics:

        *  Atomic/non-atomic:  A write is atomic if the whole amount written in one operation is not interleaved with
           data from any other process.  This is useful when there are multiple writers  sending  data  to  a  single
           reader.  Applications  need  to know how large a write request can be expected to be performed atomically.
           This maximum is called {PIPE_BUF}.  This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not say whether  write  requests  for
           more  than  {PIPE_BUF}  bytes  are  atomic, but requires that writes of {PIPE_BUF} or fewer bytes shall be
           atomic.

        *  Blocking/immediate: Blocking is only possible with O_NONBLOCK clear. If there is enough space for all  the
           data  requested  to be written immediately, the implementation should do so. Otherwise, the calling thread
           may block; that is, pause until enough space is available for writing. The effective size  of  a  pipe  or
           FIFO  (the maximum amount that can be written in one operation without blocking) may vary dynamically, de‐
           pending on the implementation, so it is not possible to specify a fixed value for it.

        *  Complete/partial/deferred: A write request:

               int fildes;
               size_t nbyte;
               ssize_t ret;
               char *buf;

               ret = write(fildes, buf, nbyte);

           may return:

           Complete  ret=nbyte

           Partial   ret<nbyte

                     This shall never happen if nbyte≤{PIPE_BUF}.  If it does happen  (with  nbyte>{PIPE_BUF}),  this
                     volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008 does not guarantee atomicity, even if ret≤{PIPE_BUF}, because atomicity
                     is guaranteed according to the amount requested, not the amount written.

           Deferred: ret=−1, errno=[EAGAIN]

                     This error indicates that a later request may succeed. It does not indicate that it  shall  suc‐
                     ceed,  even  if  nbyte≤{PIPE_BUF},  because if no process reads from the pipe or FIFO, the write
                     never succeeds. An application could usefully count the number of times [EAGAIN] is caused by  a
                     particular  value  of  nbyte>{PIPE_BUF} and perhaps do later writes with a smaller value, on the
                     assumption that the effective size of the pipe may have decreased.

           Partial and deferred writes are only possible with O_NONBLOCK set.

       The relations of these properties are shown in the following tables:
                        ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
                        │             Write to a Pipe or FIFO with O_NONBLOCK clear              │
                        ├──────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
                        │ Immediately Writable:│     None            Some            nbyte       │
                        ├──────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
                        │ nbyte≤{PIPE_BUF}     │Atomic blocking Atomic blocking Atomic immediate │
                        │                      │nbyte           nbyte           nbyte            │
                        ├──────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
                        │ nbyte>{PIPE_BUF}     │Blocking nbyte  Blocking nbyte  Blocking nbyte   │
                        └──────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

       If the O_NONBLOCK flag is clear, a write request shall block if the amount writable immediately is  less  than
       that requested. If the flag is set (by fcntl()), a write request shall never block.
                            ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
                            │          Write to a Pipe or FIFO with O_NONBLOCK set           │
                            ├──────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────┤
                            │ Immediately Writable:│    None         Some          nbyte     │
                            ├──────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────┤
                            │ nbyte≤{PIPE_BUF}     │−1, [EAGAIN] −1, [EAGAIN]  Atomic nbyte  │
                            ├──────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────┤
                            │ nbyte>{PIPE_BUF}     │−1, [EAGAIN] <nbyte or −1, ≤nbyte or −1, │
                            │                      │             [EAGAIN]      [EAGAIN]      │
                            └──────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────┘

       There  is  no  exception regarding partial writes when O_NONBLOCK is set.  With the exception of writing to an
       empty pipe, this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not specify exactly when a partial write is performed since  that
       would  require specifying internal details of the implementation. Every application should be prepared to han‐
       dle partial writes when O_NONBLOCK is set and the requested amount is greater than {PIPE_BUF}, just  as  every
       application should be prepared to handle partial writes on other kinds of file descriptors.

       The  intent  of  forcing  writing  at  least one byte if any can be written is to assure that each write makes
       progress if there is any room in the pipe. If the pipe is empty, {PIPE_BUF} bytes must be written; if not,  at
       least some progress must have been made.

       Where this volume of POSIX.1‐2008 requires −1 to be returned and errno set to [EAGAIN], most historical imple‐
       mentations  return zero (with the O_NDELAY flag set, which is the historical predecessor of O_NONBLOCK, but is
       not itself in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008). The error indications in this volume of POSIX.1‐2008  were  chosen
       so  that  an application can distinguish these cases from end-of-file. While write() cannot receive an indica‐
       tion of end-of-file, read() can, and the two functions have similar return values. Also, some existing systems
       (for example, Eighth Edition) permit a write of zero bytes to mean that the reader should get  an  end-of-file
       indication;  for those systems, a return value of zero from write() indicates a successful write of an end-of-
       file indication.

       Implementations are allowed, but not required, to perform error checking for write() requests of zero bytes.

       The concept of a {PIPE_MAX} limit (indicating the maximum number of bytes that can be written to a pipe  in  a
       single  operation)  was  considered,  but rejected, because this concept would unnecessarily limit application
       writing.

       See also the discussion of O_NONBLOCK in read().

       Writes can be serialized with respect to other reads and writes. If a read() of file data can  be  proven  (by
       any  means)  to occur after a write() of the data, it must reflect that write(), even if the calls are made by
       different processes. A similar requirement applies to multiple write operations to  the  same  file  position.
       This  is  needed  to guarantee the propagation of data from write() calls to subsequent read() calls. This re‐
       quirement is particularly significant for networked file systems, where some caching schemes violate these se‐
       mantics.

       Note that this is specified in terms of read() and write().  The XSI extensions readv() and writev() also obey
       these semantics. A new ``high-performance'' write analog that did not follow these serialization  requirements
       would  also  be permitted by this wording. This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 is also silent about any effects of ap‐
       plication-level caching (such as that done by stdio).

       This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not specify the value of the file offset after an error  is  returned;  there
       are  too  many cases. For programming errors, such as [EBADF], the concept is meaningless since no file is in‐
       volved. For errors that are detected immediately, such as [EAGAIN], clearly the pointer should not change. Af‐
       ter an interrupt or hardware error, however, an updated value would be very useful and is the behavior of many
       implementations.

       This volume of POSIX.1‐2008 does not specify behavior of concurrent writes to a file from multiple  processes.
       Applications should use some form of concurrency control.

       This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2008 intentionally does not specify any pwrite() errors related to pipes, FIFOs, and
       sockets other than [ESPIPE].

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chmod(), creat(), dup(), fcntl(), getrlimit(), lseek(), open(), pipe(), read(), ulimit(), writev()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2008, <limits.h>, <stropts.h>, <sys_uio.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from  IEEE  Std  1003.1,  2013  Edition,
       Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Speci‐
       fications  Issue  7,  Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The
       Open Group.  (This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the event  of  any  dis‐
       crepancy  between  this  version  and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
       Open  Group  Standard  is  the  referee  document.  The  original  Standard  can   be   obtained   online   at
       http://www.unix.org/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most likely to have been introduced during
       the  conversion  of  the  source  files  to  man  page  format.  To  report  such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                                      2013                                               WRITE(3P)
