ADCLI(8)                                           System Commands                                           ADCLI(8)

NAME
       adcli - Tool for performing actions on an Active Directory domain

SYNOPSIS

       adcli info domain.example.com

       adcli join domain.example.com

       adcli update

       adcli testjoin

       adcli create-user [--domain=domain.example.com] user

       adcli delete-user [--domain=domain.example.com] user

       adcli passwd-user [--domain=domain.example.com] user

       adcli create-group [--domain=domain.example.com] user

       adcli delete-group [--domain=domain.example.com] user

       adcli add-member [--domain=domain.example.com] group user or computer...

       adcli remove-member [--domain=domain.example.com] group user...

       adcli preset-computer [--domain=domain.example.com] computer...

       adcli reset-computer [--domain=domain.example.com] computer

       adcli delete-computer [--domain=domain.example.com] computer

       adcli show-computer [--domain=domain.example.com] computer

       adcli create-msa [--domain=domain.example.com]

GENERAL OVERVIEW
       adcli is a command line tool that can perform actions in an Active Directory domain. Among other things it can
       be used to join a computer to a domain.

       See the various sub commands below. The following global options can be used:

       -D, --domain=domain
           The domain to connect to. If a domain is not specified, then the domain part of the local computer's host
           name is used.

       -R, --domain-realm=REALM
           Kerberos realm for the domain. If not specified, then the upper cased domain name is used.

       -S, --domain-controller=server
           Connect to a specific domain controller. If not specified, then an appropriate domain controller is
           automatically discovered.

       --use-ldaps
           Connect to the domain controller with LDAPS. By default the LDAP port is used and SASL GSS-SPNEGO or
           GSSAPI is used for authentication and to establish encryption. This should satisfy all requirements set on
           the server side and LDAPS should only be used if the LDAP port is not accessible due to firewalls or other
           reasons.

           Please note that the place where CA certificates can be found to validate the AD DC certificates must be
           configured in the OpenLDAP configuration file, e.g.  /etc/openldap/ldap.conf. As an alternative it can be
           specified with the help of an environment variable, e.g.

               $ LDAPTLS_CACERT=/path/to/ad_dc_ca_cert.pem adcli join --use-ldaps -D domain.example.com
               ...

           Please see ldap.conf(5) for details.

       -C
           Use the default Kerberos credential cache to authenticate with the domain.

       --login-ccache[=ccache_name]
           Use the specified Kerberos credential cache to authenticate with the domain. If no credential cache is
           specified, the default Kerberos credential cache will be used. Credential caches of type FILE can be given
           with the path to the file. For other credential cache types, e.g. DIR, KEYRING or KCM, the type must be
           specified explicitly together with a suitable identifier.

           Please note that since the ccache_name is optional the =(equal) sign is mandatory. If = is missing the
           parameter is treated as optionless extra argument. How this is handled depends on the specific
           sub-command.

       -U, --login-user=User
           Use the specified user account to authenticate with the domain. If not specified, then the name
           'Administrator' will be used.

       --no-password
           Don't show prompts for or read a password from input.

       -W, --prompt-password
           Prompt for a password if necessary. This is the default.

       --stdin-password
           Read a password from stdin input instead of prompting for a password.

       -v, --verbose
           Run in verbose mode with debug output.

QUERYING DOMAIN INFORMATION
       adcli info displays discovered information about an Active Directory domain or an Active Directory domain
       controller.

           $ adcli info domain.example.com
           ...

           $ adcli info --domain-controller=dc.domain.example.com
           ...

       adcli info will output as much information as it can about the domain. The information is designed to be both
       machine and human readable. The command will exit with a non-zero exit code if the domain does not exist or
       cannot be reached.

       To show domain info for a specific domain controller use the --domain-controller option to specify which
       domain controller to query.

       Use the --verbose option to show details of how the domain is discovered and queried. Many of the global
       options, in particular authentication options, are not usable with the adcli info command.

JOINING THE LOCAL MACHINE TO A DOMAIN
       adcli join creates a computer account in the domain for the local machine, and sets up a keytab for the
       machine. It does not configure an authentication service (such as sssd).

           $ adcli join domain.example.com
           Password for Administrator:

       In addition to the global options, you can specify the following options to control how this operation is
       done.

       -N, --computer-name=computer
           The short non-dotted name of the computer account that will be created in the domain. If not specified,
           then the first portion of the --host-fqdn is used.

       -O, --domain-ou=OU=xxx
           The full distinguished name of the OU in which to create the computer account. If not specified, then the
           computer account will be created in a default location.

       -H, --host-fqdn=host
           Override the local machine's fully qualified domain name. If not specified, the local machine's hostname
           will be retrieved via gethostname(). If gethostname() only returns a short name getaddrinfo() with the
           AI_CANONNAME hint is called to expand the name to a fully qualified domain name.

       -K, --host-keytab=/path/to/keytab
           Specify the path to the host keytab where host credentials will be written after a successful join
           operation. If not specified, the default location will be used, usually /etc/krb5.keytab.

       --login-type={computer|user}
           Specify the type of authentication that will be performed before creating the machine account in the
           domain. If set to 'computer', then the computer must already have a preset account in the domain. If not
           specified and none of the other --login-xxx arguments have been specified, then will try both 'computer'
           and 'user' authentication.

       --os-name=name
           Set the operating system name on the computer account. The default depends on where adcli was built, but
           is usually something like 'linux-gnu'.

       --os-service-pack=pack
           Set the operating system service pack on the computer account. Not set by default.

       --os-version=version
           Set the operating system version on the computer account. Not set by default.

       --description=description
           Set the description attribute on the computer account. Not set by default.

       --service-name=service
           Additional service name for a Kerberos principal to be created on the computer account. This option may be
           specified multiple times.

       --user-principal=host/name@REALM
           Set the userPrincipalName field of the computer account to this Kerberos principal. If you omit the value
           for this option, then a principal will be set in the form of host/host.example.com@REALM

       --one-time-password
           Specify a one time password for a preset computer account. This is equivalent to using
           --login-type=computer and providing a password as input.

       --trusted-for-delegation=yes|no|true|false
           Set or unset the TRUSTED_FOR_DELEGATION flag in the userAccountControl attribute to allow or not allow
           that Kerberos tickets can be forwarded to the host.

       --dont-expire-password=yes|no|true|false
           Set or unset the DONT_EXPIRE_PASSWORD flag in the userAccountControl attribute to indicate if the machine
           account password should expire or not. By default adcli will set this flag while joining the domain which
           corresponds to the default behavior of Windows clients.

           Please note that if the password will expire (--dont-expire-password=false) a renewal mechanism has to be
           enabled on the client to not loose the connectivity to AD if the password expires.

       --add-service-principal=service/hostname
           Add a service principal name. In contrast to the --service-name the hostname part can be specified as well
           in case the service should be accessible with a different host name as well.

       --setattr=name=value
           Add the LDAP attribute name with the given value to the new LDAP host object. This option can be used
           multiple times to add multiple different attributes. Multi-value attributes are currently not supported.

           Please note that the account used to join the domain must have the required privileges to add the given
           attributes. Some attributes might have constraints with respect to syntax and allowed values which must be
           met as well. Attributes managed by other adcli options cannot be set with this option.

       --show-details
           After a successful join print out information about join operation. This is output in a format that should
           be both human and machine readable.

       --show-password
           After a successful join print out the computer machine account password. This is output in a format that
           should be both human and machine readable.

       --add-samba-data
           After a successful join add the domain SID and the machine account password to the Samba specific
           databases by calling Samba's net utility.

           Please note that Samba's net requires some settings in smb.conf to create the database entries correctly.
           Most important here is currently the workgroup option, see smb.conf(5) for details.

       --samba-data-tool=/path/to/net
           If Samba's net cannot be found at /usr/bin/net, this option can be used to specific an alternative
           location with the help of an absolute path.

       --ldap-passwd
           Use LDAP add/mod operations to set the machine account password instead of Kerberos. This might help in
           some situations where Kerberos fails or is unreliable. But please note that 'Change password' or 'Reset
           password' permissions or similar might be needed to make the LDAP operation work. Additionally there will
           be no read-only domain controller (RODC) support as there is with Kerberos.

       If supported on the AD side the msDS-supportedEncryptionTypes attribute will be set as well. Either the
       current value or the default list of AD's supported encryption types filtered by the permitted encryption
       types of the client's Kerberos configuration are written.

UPDATING THE MACHINE ACCOUNT PASSWORD AND OTHER ATTRIBUTES
       adcli update updates the password of the computer account on the domain controller for the local machine,
       write the new keys to the keytab and removes older keys. It keeps the previous key on purpose because AD will
       need some time to replicate the new key to all DCs hence the previous key might still be used.

           $ adcli update

       If used with a credential cache, other attributes of the computer account can be changed as well if the
       principal has sufficient privileges.

           $ kinit Administrator
           $ adcli update --login-ccache=/tmp/krbcc_123

       In addition to the global options, you can specify the following options to control how this operation is
       done.

       -N, --computer-name=computer
           The short non-dotted name of the computer account that will be created in the domain. If not specified, it
           will be retrieved from the keytab entries.

       -H, --host-fqdn=host
           The local machine's fully qualified domain name. If not specified, the local machine's hostname will be
           retrieved from the keytab entries.

       -K, --host-keytab=/path/to/keytab
           Specify the path to the host keytab where current host credentials are stored and the new ones will be
           written to. If not specified, the default location will be used, usually /etc/krb5.keytab.

       --os-name=name
           Set the operating system name on the computer account. Not set by default.

       --os-service-pack=pack
           Set the operating system service pack on the computer account. Not set by default.

       --os-version=version
           Set the operating system version on the computer account. Not set by default.

       --description=description
           Set the description attribute on the computer account. Not set by default.

       --service-name=service
           Additional service name for a Kerberos principal to be created on the computer account. This option may be
           specified multiple times.

       --user-principal=host/name@REALM
           Set the userPrincipalName field of the computer account to this Kerberos principal.

       --computer-password-lifetime=lifetime
           Only update the password of the computer account if it is older than the lifetime given in days. By
           default the password is updated if it is older than 30 days.

       --trusted-for-delegation=yes|no|true|false
           Set or unset the TRUSTED_FOR_DELEGATION flag in the userAccountControl attribute to allow or not allow
           that Kerberos tickets can be forwarded to the host.

       --dont-expire-password=yes|no|true|false
           Set or unset the DONT_EXPIRE_PASSWORD flag in the userAccountControl attribute to indicate if the machine
           account password should expire or not. By default adcli will set this flag while joining the domain which
           corresponds to the default behavior of Windows clients.

           Please note that if the password will expire (--dont-expire-password=false) a renewal mechanism has to be
           enabled on the client to not loose the connectivity to AD if the password expires.

       --account-disable=yes|no|true|false
           Set or unset the ACCOUNTDISABLE flag in the userAccountControl attribute to disable or enable the computer
           account.

       --add-service-principal=service/hostname
           Add a service principal name. In contrast to the --service-name the hostname part can be specified as well
           in case the service should be accessible with a different host name as well.

       --remove-service-principal=service/hostname
           Remove a service principal name from the keytab and the AD host object.

       --setattr=name=value
           Add the LDAP attribute name with the given value to the LDAP host object. This option can be used multiple
           times to add multiple different attributes. Multi-value attributes are currently not supported.

           Please note that the account used to update the host object must have the required privileges to modify
           the given attributes. Some attributes might have constraints with respect to syntax and allowed values
           which must be met as well. Attributes managed by other adcli options cannot be set with this option.

       --delattr=name
           Remove the LDAP attribute name from the LDAP host object. This option can be used multiple times to remove
           multiple different attributes.

           Please note that the account used to update the host object must have the required privileges to delete
           the given attributes. Attributes managed by other adcli options cannot be removed.

       --show-details
           After a successful join print out information about join operation. This is output in a format that should
           be both human and machine readable.

       --add-samba-data
           After a successful join add the domain SID and the machine account password to the Samba specific
           databases by calling Samba's net utility.

           Please note that Samba's net requires some settings in smb.conf to create the database entries correctly.
           Most important here is currently the workgroup option, see smb.conf(5) for details.

           Note that if the machine account password is not older than 30 days, you have to pass
           --computer-password-lifetime=0 to force the update.

       --samba-data-tool=/path/to/net
           If Samba's net cannot be found at /usr/bin/net, this option can be used to specific an alternative
           location with the help of an absolute path.

       --ldap-passwd
           Use LDAP add/mod operations to set the machine account password instead of Kerberos. This might help in
           some situations where Kerberos fails or is unreliable. But please note that 'Change password' or 'Rest
           password' permissions or similar might be needed to make the LDAP operation work. Additionally there will
           be no read-only domain controller (RODC) support as there is with Kerberos.

       If supported on the AD side the msDS-supportedEncryptionTypes attribute will be set as well. Either the
       current value or the default list of AD's supported encryption types filtered by the permitted encryption
       types of the client's Kerberos configuration are written.

TESTING IF THE MACHINE ACCOUNT PASSWORD IS VALID
       adcli testjoin uses the current credentials in the keytab and tries to authenticate with the machine account
       to the AD domain. If this works the machine account password and the join are still valid. If it fails the
       machine account password or the whole machine account have to be refreshed with adcli join or adcli update.

           $ adcli testjoin

       Only the global options not related to authentication are available, additionally you can specify the
       following options to control how this operation is done.

       -K, --host-keytab=/path/to/keytab
           Specify the path to the host keytab where current host credentials are stored and the new ones will be
           written to. If not specified, the default location will be used, usually /etc/krb5.keytab.

CREATING A USER
       adcli create-user creates a new user account in the domain.

           $ adcli create-user Fry --domain=domain.example.com \
                --display-name="Philip J. Fry" --mail=fry@domain.example.com

       In addition to the global options, you can specify the following options to control how the user is created.

       --display-name="Name"
           Set the displayName attribute of the new created user account.

       -O, --domain-ou=OU=xxx
           The full distinguished name of the OU in which to create the user account. If not specified, then the
           computer account will be created in a default location.

       --mail=email@domain.com
           Set the mail attribute of the new created user account. This attribute may be specified multiple times.

       --unix-home=/home/user
           Set the unixHomeDirectory attribute of the new created user account, which should be an absolute path to
           the user's home directory.

       --unix-gid=111
           Set the gidNumber attribute of the new created user account, which should be the user's numeric primary
           group id.

       --unix-shell=/bin/shell
           Set the loginShell attribute of the new created user account, which should be a path to a valid shell.

       --unix-uid=111
           Set the uidNumber attribute of the new created user account, which should be the user's numeric primary
           user id.

       --nis-domain=nis_domain
           Set the msSFU30NisDomain attribute of the new created user account, which should be the user's NIS domain
           is the NIS/YP service of Active Directory's Services for Unix (SFU) are used. This is needed to let the
           'UNIX attributes' tab of older Active Directory versions show the set UNIX specific attributes. If not
           specified adcli will try to determine the NIS domain automatically if needed.

DELETING A USER
       adcli delete-user deletes a user account from the domain.

           $ adcli delete-user Fry --domain=domain.example.com

       The various global options can be used.

(RE)SETTING THE PASSWORD OF A USER WITH AN ADMINISTRATIVE ACCOUNT
       adcli passwd-user sets or resets the password of user account. The administrative account used for this
       operation must have privileges to set a password.

           $ adcli passwd-user Fry --domain=domain.example.com

       The various global options can be used.

CREATING A GROUP
       adcli create-group creates a new group in the domain.

           $ adcli create-group Pilots --domain=domain.example.com \
                --description="Group for all pilots"

       In addition to the global options, you can specify the following options to control how the group is created.

       --description="text"
           Set the description attribute of the new created group.

       -O, --domain-ou=OU=xxx
           The full distinguished name of the OU in which to create the group. If not specified, then the group will
           be created in a default location.

DELETING A GROUP
       adcli delete-group deletes a group from the domain.

           $ adcli delete-group Pilots --domain=domain.example.com

       The various global options can be used.

ADDING A MEMBER TO A GROUP
       adcli add-member adds one or more users to a group in the domain. The group is specified first, and then the
       various users or computers to be added. You must use dollar sign for computer account (computername$)

           $ adcli add-member --domain=domain.example.com Pilots Leela Scruffy
           $ adcli add-member --domain=domain.example.com servers srv-smb$

       The various global options can be used.

REMOVING A MEMBER FROM A GROUP
       adcli remove-member removes a user from a group in the domain. The group is specified first, and then the
       various users to be removed.

           $ adcli remove-member --domain=domain.example.com Pilots Scruffy

       The various global options can be used.

PRESET COMPUTER ACCOUNTS
       adcli preset-computer pre-creates one or more computer accounts in the domain for machines to later use when
       joining the domain. By doing this machines can join using a one time password or automatically without a
       password.

           $ adcli preset-computer --domain=domain.example.com \
                host1.example.com host2
           Password for Administrator:

       If the computer names specified contain dots, then they are treated as fully qualified host names, otherwise
       they are treated as short computer names. The computer accounts must not already exist.

       In addition to the global options, you can specify the following options to control how this operation is
       done.

       -O, --domain-ou=OU=xxx
           The full distinguished name of the OU in which to create the computer accounts. If not specified, then the
           computer account will be created in a default location.

       --one-time-password
           Specify a one time password to use when presetting the computer accounts. If not specified, then a default
           password will be used, which allows for later automatic joins.

       --os-name=name
           Set the operating system name on the computer account. The default depends on where adcli was built, but
           is usually something like 'linux-gnu'.

       --os-service-pack=pack
           Set the operating system service pack on the computer account. Not set by default.

       --os-version=version
           Set the operating system version on the computer account. Not set by default.

       --service-name=service
           Additional service name for a Kerberos principal to be created on the computer account. This option may be
           specified multiple times.

       --user-principal
           Set the userPrincipalName field of the computer account to this Kerberos principal in the form of
           host/host.example.com@REALM

RESET COMPUTER ACCOUNT
       adcli reset-computer resets a computer account in the domain. If the appropriate machine is currently joined
       to the domain, then its membership will be broken. The account must already exist.

           $ adcli reset-computer --domain=domain.example.com host2

       If the computer names specified contain dots, then they are treated as fully qualified host names, otherwise
       they are treated as short computer names.

       In addition to the global options, you can specify the following options to control how this operation is
       done.

       --login-type={computer|user}
           Specify the type of authentication that will be performed before creating the machine account in the
           domain. If set to 'computer', then the computer must already have a preset account in the domain. If not
           specified and none of the other --login-xxx arguments have been specified, then will try both 'computer'
           and 'user' authentication.

DELETE COMPUTER ACCOUNT
       adcli delete-computer deletes a computer account in the domain. The account must already exist.

           $ adcli delete-computer --domain=domain.example.com host2
           Password for Administrator:

       If the computer name contains a dot, then it is treated as fully qualified host name, otherwise it is treated
       as short computer name.

       If no computer name is specified, then the host name of the computer adcli is running on is used, as returned
       by gethostname().

       The various global options can be used.

SHOW COMPUTER ACCOUNT ATTRIBUTES
       adcli show-computer show the computer account attributes stored in AD. The account must already exist.

           $ adcli show-computer --domain=domain.example.com host2
           Password for Administrator:

       If the computer name contains a dot, then it is treated as fully qualified host name, otherwise it is treated
       as short computer name.

       If no computer name is specified, then the host name of the computer adcli is running on is used, as returned
       by gethostname().

       The various global options can be used.

CREATE A MANAGED SERVICE ACCOUNT
       adcli create-msa creates a managed service account (MSA) in the given Active Directory domain. This is useful
       if a computer should not fully join the Active Directory domain but LDAP access is needed. A typical use case
       is that the computer is already joined an Active Directory domain and needs access to another Active Directory
       domain in the same or a trusted forest where the host credentials from the joined Active Directory domain are
       not valid, e.g. there is only a one-way trust.

           $ adcli create-msa --domain=domain.example.com
           Password for Administrator:

       The managed service account, as maintained by adcli, cannot have additional service principals names (SPNs)
       associated with it. An SPN is defined within the context of a Kerberos service which is tied to a machine
       account in Active Directory. Since a machine can be joined to a single Active Directory domain, managed
       service account in a different Active Directory domain will not have the SPNs that otherwise are part of
       another Active Directory domain's machine.

       Since it is expected that a client will most probably join to the Active Directory domain matching its DNS
       domain the managed service account will be needed for a different Active Directory domain and as a result the
       Active Directory domain name is a mandatory option. If called with no other options adcli create-msa will use
       the short hostname with an additional random suffix as computer name to avoid name collisions.

       LDAP attribute sAMAccountName has a limit of 20 characters. However, machine account's NetBIOS name must be at
       most 16 characters long, including a trailing '$' sign. Since it is not expected that the managed service
       accounts created by adcli will be used on the NetBIOS level the remaining 4 characters can be used to add
       uniqueness. Managed service account names will have a suffix of 3 random characters from number and upper- and
       lowercase ASCII ranges appended to the chosen short host name, using '!' as a separator. For a host with the
       shortname 'myhost', a managed service account will have a common name (CN attribute) 'myhost!A2c' and a
       NetBIOS name (sAMAccountName attribute) will be 'myhost!A2c$'. A corresponding Kerberos principal in the
       Active Directory domain where the managed service account was created would be
       'myhost!A2c$@DOMAIN.EXAMPLE.COM'.

       A keytab for the managed service account is stored into a file specified with -K option. If it is not
       specified, the file is named after the default keytab file, with lowercase Active Directory domain of the
       managed service account as a suffix. On most systems it would be /etc/krb5.keytab with a suffix of
       'domain.example.com', e.g.  /etc/krb5.keytab.domain.example.com.

       adcli create-msa can be called multiple times to reset the password of the managed service account. To
       identify the right account with the random component in the name the corresponding principal is read from the
       keytab. If the keytab got deleted adcli will try to identify an existing managed service account with the help
       of the fully-qualified name, if this fails a new managed service account will be created.

       The managed service account password can be updated with

           $ adcli update --domain=domain.example.com --host-keytab=/etc/krb5.keytab.domain.example.com

       and the managed service account can be deleted with

           $ adcli delete-computer --domain=domain.example.com 'myhost!A2c'

       In addition to the global options, you can specify the following options to control how this operation is
       done.

       -N, --computer-name=computer
           The short non-dotted name of the managed service account that will be created in the Active Directory
           domain. The long option name --computer-name is kept to underline the similarity with the same option of
           the other sub-commands. If not specified, then the first portion of the --host-fqdn or its default is used
           with a random suffix.

       -O, --domain-ou=OU=xxx
           The full distinguished name of the OU in which to create the managed service account. If not specified,
           then the managed service account will be created in a default location.

       -H, --host-fqdn=host
           Override the local machine's fully qualified DNS domain name. If not specified, the local machine's
           hostname will be retrieved via gethostname(). If gethostname() only returns a short name getaddrinfo()
           with the AI_CANONNAME hint is called to expand the name to a fully qualified DNS domain name.

       -K, --host-keytab=/path/to/keytab
           Specify the path to the host keytab where credentials of the managed service account will be written after
           a successful creation. If not specified, the default location will be used, usually /etc/krb5.keytab with
           the lower-cased Active Directory domain name added as a suffix e.g.  /etc/krb5.keytab.domain.example.com.

       --show-details
           After a successful creation print out information about the created object. This is output in a format
           that should be both human and machine readable.

       --show-password
           After a successful creation print out the managed service account password. This is output in a format
           that should be both human and machine readable.

DELEGATED PERMISSIONS
       It is common practice in AD to not use an account from the Domain Administrators group to join a machine to a
       domain but use a dedicated account which only has permissions to join a machine to one or more OUs in the
       Active Directory tree. Giving the needed permissions to a single account or a group in Active Directory is
       called Delegation. A typical example on how to configured Delegation can be found in the Delegation section of
       the blog post Who can add workstation to the domain[1].

       When using an account with delegated permissions with adcli basically the same applies as well. However some
       aspects are explained here in a bit more details to better illustrate different concepts of Active Directory
       and to make it more easy to debug permissions issues during the join. Please note that the following is not
       specific to adcli but applies to all applications which would like to modify certain properties or objects in
       Active Directory with an account with limited permissions.

       First, as said in the blog post it is sufficient to have "Create computer object" permissions to join a
       computer to a domain. But this would only work as expected if the computer object does not exist in Active
       Directory before the join. Because only when a new object is created Active Directory does not apply
       additional permission checks on the attributes of the new computer object. This means the delegated user can
       add any kind of attribute with any value to a new computer object also long as they meet general constraints
       like e.g. that the attribute must be defined in the schema and is allowed in a objectclass of the object, the
       value must match the syntax defined in the schema or that the sAMAccountName must be unique in the domain.

       If you want to use the account with delegated permission to remove computer objects in Active Directory (adcli
       delete-computer) you should of course make sure that the account has "Delete computer object" permissions.

       If the computer object already exists the "Create computer object" permission does not apply anymore since now
       an existing object must be modified. Now permissions on the individual attributes are needed. e.g.  "Read and
       write Account Restrictions" or "Reset Password". For some attributes Active Directory has two types of
       permissions the plain "Read and Write" permissions and the "Validated Write" permissions. For the latter case
       there are two specific permissions relevant for adcli, namely

       •   Validated write to DNS host name

       •   Validated write to service principal name

       Details about the validation of the values can be found in the "Validated Writes" section of [MS-ADTS],
       especially dNSHostName[2] and servicePrincipalName[3]. To cut it short for "Validated write to DNS host name"
       the domain part of the fully-qualified hostname must either match the domain name of the domain you want to
       join to or must be listed in the msDS-AllowedDNSSuffixes attribute. And for "Validated write to service
       principal name" the hostname part of the service principal name must match the name stored in dNSHostName or
       some other attributes which are not handled by adcli. This also means that dNSHostName cannot be empty or only
       contain a short name if the service principal name should contain a fully-qualified name.

       To summarize, if you only have validated write permissions you should make sure the domain part of the
       hostname matches the domain you want to join or use the --host-fqdn with a matching name.

       The plain read write permissions do not run additional validations but the attribute values must still be in
       agreement with the general constraints mentioned above. If the computer object already exists adcli might need
       the following permissions which are also needed by Windows clients to modify existing attributes:

       •   Reset Password

       •   Read and write Account Restrictions

       •   Read and (validated) write to DNS host name

       •   Read and (validated) write to service principal name

       additionally adcli needs

       •   Read and write msDS-supportedEncryptionTypes

       This is added for security reasons to avoid that Active Directory stores Kerberos keys with (potentially
       weaker) encryption types than the client supports since Active Directory is often configured to still support
       older (weaker) encryption types for compatibility reasons.

       All other attributes are only set or modified on demand, i.e. adcli must be called with an option the would
       set or modify the given attribute. In the following the attributes adcli can modify together with the required
       permissions are listed:

       •   userPrincipalName

           •   Read/Write userPrincipal Name

       •   msDS-supportedEncryptionTypes

           •   Read/Write msDS-SupportedEncryptionTypes

       •   dNSHostName

           •   Read/Write dNSHostName

           •   Read and write DNS host name attributes

           •   Validated write to DNS host name

       •   servicePrincipalName

           •   Read/Write servicePrincipalName

           •   Validated write to service principal name

       •   operatingSystem

           •   Read/Write Operating System

       •   operatingSystemVersion

           •   Read/Write Operating System Version

       •   operatingSystemServicePack

           •   Read/Write operatingSystemServicePack

       •   userAccountControl

           •   Read/Write userAccountControl

       •   description

           •   Read/Write Description

       For the management of users and groups (adcli create-user, adcli delete-user, adcli create-group, adcli
       delete-group) the same applies only for different types of objects, i.e. users and groups. Since currently
       adcli only supports the creation and the removal of user and group objects it is sufficient to have the
       "Create/Delete User objects" and "Create/Delete Group objects" permissions.

       If you want to manage group members as well (adcli add-member, adcli remove-member) "Read/Write Members"
       permissions are needed as well.

       Depending on the version of Active Directory the "Delegation of Control Wizard" might offer some shortcuts for
       common task like e.g.

       •   Create, delete and manage user accounts

       •   Create, delete and manage groups

       •   Modify the membership of a group

       The first 2 shortcuts will provided full access to user and group objects which, as explained above, is more
       than currently is needed. After using those shortcut it is a good idea to verify in the "Security" tab in the
       "Properties" of the related Active Directory container that the assigned permissions meet the expectations.

BUGS
       Please send bug reports to either the distribution bug tracker or the upstream bug tracker at
       https://bugs.freedesktop.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=realmd&component=adcli

SEE ALSO
       realmd(8), net(8), sssd(8)

       Further details available in the realmd online documentation at http://www.freedesktop.org/software/realmd/

NOTES
        1. Who can add workstation to the domain
           https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/blogs/dubaisec/who-can-add-workstation-to-the-domain

        2. dNSHostName
           https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-adts/5c578b15-d619-408d-ba17-380714b89fd1

        3. servicePrincipalName
           https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-adts/28ca4eca-0e0b-4666-9175-a37ccb8edada

realmd                                                                                                       ADCLI(8)
