intro(3)                                       Library Functions Manual                                      intro(3)

NAME
       intro - introduction to library functions

DESCRIPTION
       Section 3 of the manual describes all library functions excluding the library functions (system call wrappers)
       described in Section 2, which implement system calls.

       Many  of the functions described in the section are part of the Standard C Library (libc).  Some functions are
       part of other libraries (e.g., the math library, libm, or the real-time library, librt) in which case the man‐
       ual page will indicate the linker option needed to link against the required library (e.g., -lm and -lrt,  re‐
       spectively, for the aforementioned libraries).

       In  some  cases, the programmer must define a feature test macro in order to obtain the declaration of a func‐
       tion from the header file specified in the man page SYNOPSIS section.  (Where  required,  these  feature  test
       macros  must be defined before including any header files.)  In such cases, the required macro is described in
       the man page.  For further information on feature test macros, see feature_test_macros(7).

   Subsections
       Section 3 of this manual is organized into subsections that reflect the complex structure of  the  standard  C
       library and its many implementations:

       •  3const

       •  3head

       •  3type

       This  difficult  history frequently makes it a poor example to follow in design, implementation, and presenta‐
       tion.

       Ideally, a library for the C language is designed such that each header file presents the interface to  a  co‐
       herent  software  module.  It provides a small number of function declarations and exposes only data types and
       constants that are required for use of those functions.  Together, these are termed an API or application pro‐
       gram interface.  Types and constants to be shared among multiple APIs should be placed in  header  files  that
       declare no functions.  This organization permits a C library module to be documented concisely with one header
       file  per  manual page.  Such an approach improves the readability and accessibility of library documentation,
       and thereby the usability of the software.

STANDARDS
       Certain terms and abbreviations are used to indicate UNIX variants and standards to which calls in  this  sec‐
       tion conform.  See standards(7).

NOTES
   Authors and copyright conditions
       Look  at the header of the manual page source for the author(s) and copyright conditions.  Note that these can
       be different from page to page!

SEE ALSO
       intro(2), errno(3), capabilities(7), credentials(7),  environ(7),  feature_test_macros(7),  libc(7),  math_er‐
       ror(7), path_resolution(7), pthreads(7), signal(7), standards(7), system_data_types(7)

Linux man-pages 6.04                                  2023-02-05                                             intro(3)
