RDISC(8)                                               iputils                                               RDISC(8)

NAME
       rdisc - network router discovery daemon

SYNOPSIS

       rdisc [-abdfrstvV] [-p preference] [-T max_interval] [send_address] [receive_address]

DESCRIPTION
       rdisc implements client side of the ICMP Internet Router Discovery Protocol (IRDP).  rdisc is invoked at boot
       time to populate the network routing tables with default routes.

       rdisc listens on the ALL_HOSTS (224.0.0.1) multicast address (or receive_address if it is provided) for
       ROUTER_ADVERTISE messages from routers. The received messages are handled by first ignoring those listed
       router addresses with which the host does not share a network. Among the remaining addresses the ones with the
       highest preference are selected as default routers and a default route is entered in the kernel routing table
       for each one of them.

       Optionally, rdisc can avoid waiting for routers to announce themselves by sending out a few
       ROUTER_SOLICITATION messages to the ALL_ROUTERS (224.0.0.2) multicast address (or send_address if it is
       provided) when it is started.

       A timer is associated with each router address and the address will no longer be considered for inclusion in
       the routing tables if the timer expires before a new advertise message is received from the router. The
       address will also be excluded from consideration if the received advertise message has a preference of maximum
       negative.

       Server side of router discovery protocol is supported by Cisco IOS and by any more or less complete UNIX
       routing daemon, for example gated. If compiled with ENABLE_RDISC_SERVER, rdisc can act as responder.

OPTIONS
       -a
           Accept all routers independently of the preference they have in their advertise messages. Normally rdisc
           only accepts (and enters in the kernel routing tables) the router or routers with the highest preference.

       -b
           Opposite to -a, i.e. install only router with the best preference value. This is the default behaviour.

       -d
           Send debugging messages to syslog.

       -f
           Keep rdisc running in the background even if no routers are found. Normally rdisc gives up if it has not
           received any advertise message after soliciting three times. In this case it exits with a non-zero exit
           code. If -f is not specified in the first form then -s must be specified.

       -r
           Responder mode, available only if compiled with ENABLE_RDISC_SERVER.

       -s
           Send three solicitation messages initially to quickly discover the routers when the system is booted. When
           -s is specified rdisc exits with a non-zero exit code if it can not find any routers. This can be
           overridden with the -f option.

       -p preference
           Set preference in advertisement messages. Available only with -r option.

       -T max_interval
           Set maximum advertisement interval in seconds. Default is 600. Available only with -r option.

       -t
           Test mode. Do not go to background.

       -v
           Be verbose and send lots of debugging messages to syslog.

       -V
           Print version and exit.

HISTORY
       This program was developed by Sun Microsystems (see copyright notice in source file). It was ported to Linux
       by Alexey Kuznetsov <kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru>.

SEE ALSO
       icmp(7), inet(7), ping(8).

REFERENCES
       RFC1256 ICMP Router Discovery Messages. S. Deering, Ed.. September 1991.

SECURITY
       rdisc requires CAP_NET_RAW to listen and send ICMP messages and capability CAP_NET_ADMIN to update routing
       tables.

AVAILABILITY
       rdisc is part of iputils package.

iputils 20210202                                                                                             RDISC(8)
