SSSD-KRB5(5)                                 File Formats and Conventions                                SSSD-KRB5(5)

NAME
       sssd-krb5 - SSSD Kerberos provider

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page describes the configuration of the Kerberos 5 authentication backend for sssd(8). For a
       detailed syntax reference, please refer to the “FILE FORMAT” section of the sssd.conf(5) manual page.

       The Kerberos 5 authentication backend contains auth and chpass providers. It must be paired with an identity
       provider in order to function properly (for example, id_provider = ldap). Some information required by the
       Kerberos 5 authentication backend must be provided by the identity provider, such as the user's Kerberos
       Principal Name (UPN). The configuration of the identity provider should have an entry to specify the UPN.
       Please refer to the man page for the applicable identity provider for details on how to configure this.

       This backend also provides access control based on the .k5login file in the home directory of the user. See
       k5login(5) for more details. Please note that an empty .k5login file will deny all access to this user. To
       activate this feature, use 'access_provider = krb5' in your SSSD configuration.

       In the case where the UPN is not available in the identity backend, sssd will construct a UPN using the format
       username@krb5_realm.

CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
       If the auth-module krb5 is used in an SSSD domain, the following options must be used. See the sssd.conf(5)
       manual page, section “DOMAIN SECTIONS”, for details on the configuration of an SSSD domain.

       krb5_server, krb5_backup_server (string)
           Specifies the comma-separated list of IP addresses or hostnames of the Kerberos servers to which SSSD
           should connect, in the order of preference. For more information on failover and server redundancy, see
           the “FAILOVER” section. An optional port number (preceded by a colon) may be appended to the addresses or
           hostnames. If empty, service discovery is enabled; for more information, refer to the “SERVICE DISCOVERY”
           section.

           When using service discovery for KDC or kpasswd servers, SSSD first searches for DNS entries that specify
           _udp as the protocol and falls back to _tcp if none are found.

           This option was named “krb5_kdcip” in earlier releases of SSSD. While the legacy name is recognized for
           the time being, users are advised to migrate their config files to use “krb5_server” instead.

       krb5_realm (string)
           The name of the Kerberos realm. This option is required and must be specified.

       krb5_kpasswd, krb5_backup_kpasswd (string)
           If the change password service is not running on the KDC, alternative servers can be defined here. An
           optional port number (preceded by a colon) may be appended to the addresses or hostnames.

           For more information on failover and server redundancy, see the “FAILOVER” section. NOTE: Even if there
           are no more kpasswd servers to try, the backend is not switched to operate offline if authentication
           against the KDC is still possible.

           Default: Use the KDC

       krb5_ccachedir (string)
           Directory to store credential caches. All the substitution sequences of krb5_ccname_template can be used
           here, too, except %d and %P. The directory is created as private and owned by the user, with permissions
           set to 0700.

           Default: /tmp

       krb5_ccname_template (string)
           Location of the user's credential cache. Three credential cache types are currently supported: “FILE”,
           “DIR” and “KEYRING:persistent”. The cache can be specified either as TYPE:RESIDUAL, or as an absolute
           path, which implies the “FILE” type. In the template, the following sequences are substituted:

           %u
               login name

           %U
               login UID

           %p
               principal name

           %r
               realm name

           %h
               home directory

           %d
               value of krb5_ccachedir

           %P
               the process ID of the SSSD client

           %%
               a literal '%'

           If the template ends with 'XXXXXX' mkstemp(3) is used to create a unique filename in a safe way.

           When using KEYRING types, the only supported mechanism is “KEYRING:persistent:%U”, which uses the Linux
           kernel keyring to store credentials on a per-UID basis. This is also the recommended choice, as it is the
           most secure and predictable method.

           The default value for the credential cache name is sourced from the profile stored in the system wide
           krb5.conf configuration file in the [libdefaults] section. The option name is default_ccache_name. See
           krb5.conf(5)'s PARAMETER EXPANSION paragraph for additional information on the expansion format defined by
           krb5.conf.

           NOTE: Please be aware that libkrb5 ccache expansion template from krb5.conf(5) uses different expansion
           sequences than SSSD.

           Default: (from libkrb5)

       krb5_keytab (string)
           The location of the keytab to use when validating credentials obtained from KDCs.

           Default: System keytab, normally /etc/krb5.keytab

       krb5_store_password_if_offline (boolean)
           Store the password of the user if the provider is offline and use it to request a TGT when the provider
           comes online again.

           NOTE: this feature is only available on Linux. Passwords stored in this way are kept in plaintext in the
           kernel keyring and are potentially accessible by the root user (with difficulty).

           Default: false

       krb5_use_fast (string)
           Enables flexible authentication secure tunneling (FAST) for Kerberos pre-authentication. The following
           options are supported:

           never use FAST. This is equivalent to not setting this option at all.

           try to use FAST. If the server does not support FAST, continue the authentication without it.

           demand to use FAST. The authentication fails if the server does not require fast.

           Default: not set, i.e. FAST is not used.

           NOTE: a keytab or support for anonymous PKINIT is required to use FAST.

           NOTE: SSSD supports FAST only with MIT Kerberos version 1.8 and later. If SSSD is used with an older
           version of MIT Kerberos, using this option is a configuration error.

       krb5_fast_principal (string)
           Specifies the server principal to use for FAST.

       krb5_fast_use_anonymous_pkinit (boolean)
           If set to true try to use anonymous PKINIT instead of a keytab to get the required credential for FAST.
           The krb5_fast_principal options is ignored in this case.

           Default: false

       krb5_use_kdcinfo (boolean)
           Specifies if the SSSD should instruct the Kerberos libraries what realm and which KDCs to use. This option
           is on by default, if you disable it, you need to configure the Kerberos library using the krb5.conf(5)
           configuration file.

           See the sssd_krb5_locator_plugin(8) manual page for more information on the locator plugin.

           Default: true

       krb5_kdcinfo_lookahead (string)
           When krb5_use_kdcinfo is set to true, you can limit the amount of servers handed to
           sssd_krb5_locator_plugin(8). This might be helpful when there are too many servers discovered using SRV
           record.

           The krb5_kdcinfo_lookahead option contains two numbers separated by a colon. The first number represents
           number of primary servers used and the second number specifies the number of backup servers.

           For example 10:0 means that up to 10 primary servers will be handed to sssd_krb5_locator_plugin(8) but no
           backup servers.

           Default: 3:1

       krb5_use_enterprise_principal (boolean)
           Specifies if the user principal should be treated as enterprise principal. See section 5 of RFC 6806 for
           more details about enterprise principals.

           Default: false (AD provider: true)

           The IPA provider will set to option to 'true' if it detects that the server is capable of handling
           enterprise principals and the option is not set explicitly in the config file.

       krb5_use_subdomain_realm (boolean)
           Specifies to use subdomains realms for the authentication of users from trusted domains. This option can
           be set to 'true' if enterprise principals are used with upnSuffixes which are not known on the parent
           domain KDCs. If the option is set to 'true' SSSD will try to send the request directly to a KDC of the
           trusted domain the user is coming from.

           Default: false

       krb5_map_user (string)
           The list of mappings is given as a comma-separated list of pairs “username:primary” where “username” is a
           UNIX user name and “primary” is a user part of a kerberos principal. This mapping is used when user is
           authenticating using “auth_provider = krb5”.

           example:

               krb5_realm = REALM
               krb5_map_user = joe:juser,dick:richard

           “joe” and “dick” are UNIX user names and “juser” and “richard” are primaries of kerberos principals. For
           user “joe” resp.  “dick” SSSD will try to kinit as “juser@REALM” resp.  “richard@REALM”.

           Default: not set

       krb5_auth_timeout (integer)
           Timeout in seconds after an online authentication request or change password request is aborted. If
           possible, the authentication request is continued offline.

           Default: 6

       krb5_validate (boolean)
           Verify with the help of krb5_keytab that the TGT obtained has not been spoofed. The keytab is checked for
           entries sequentially, and the first entry with a matching realm is used for validation. If no entry
           matches the realm, the last entry in the keytab is used. This process can be used to validate environments
           using cross-realm trust by placing the appropriate keytab entry as the last entry or the only entry in the
           keytab file.

           Default: false (IPA and AD provider: true)

           Please note that the ticket validation is the first step when checking the PAC (see 'pac_check' in the
           sssd.conf(5) manual page for details). If ticket validation is disabled the PAC checks will be skipped as
           well.

       krb5_renewable_lifetime (string)
           Request a renewable ticket with a total lifetime, given as an integer immediately followed by a time unit:

           s for seconds

           m for minutes

           h for hours

           d for days.

           If there is no unit given, s is assumed.

           NOTE: It is not possible to mix units. To set the renewable lifetime to one and a half hours, use '90m'
           instead of '1h30m'.

           Default: not set, i.e. the TGT is not renewable

       krb5_lifetime (string)
           Request ticket with a lifetime, given as an integer immediately followed by a time unit:

           s for seconds

           m for minutes

           h for hours

           d for days.

           If there is no unit given s is assumed.

           NOTE: It is not possible to mix units. To set the lifetime to one and a half hours please use '90m'
           instead of '1h30m'.

           Default: not set, i.e. the default ticket lifetime configured on the KDC.

       krb5_renew_interval (string)
           The time in seconds between two checks if the TGT should be renewed. TGTs are renewed if about half of
           their lifetime is exceeded, given as an integer immediately followed by a time unit:

           s for seconds

           m for minutes

           h for hours

           d for days.

           If there is no unit given, s is assumed.

           NOTE: It is not possible to mix units. To set the renewable lifetime to one and a half hours, use '90m'
           instead of '1h30m'.

           If this option is not set or is 0 the automatic renewal is disabled.

           Default: not set

       krb5_canonicalize (boolean)
           Specifies if the host and user principal should be canonicalized. This feature is available with MIT
           Kerberos 1.7 and later versions.

           Default: false

FAILOVER
       The failover feature allows back ends to automatically switch to a different server if the current server
       fails.

   Failover Syntax
       The list of servers is given as a comma-separated list; any number of spaces is allowed around the comma. The
       servers are listed in order of preference. The list can contain any number of servers.

       For each failover-enabled config option, two variants exist: primary and backup. The idea is that servers in
       the primary list are preferred and backup servers are only searched if no primary servers can be reached. If a
       backup server is selected, a timeout of 31 seconds is set. After this timeout SSSD will periodically try to
       reconnect to one of the primary servers. If it succeeds, it will replace the current active (backup) server.

   The Failover Mechanism
       The failover mechanism distinguishes between a machine and a service. The back end first tries to resolve the
       hostname of a given machine; if this resolution attempt fails, the machine is considered offline. No further
       attempts are made to connect to this machine for any other service. If the resolution attempt succeeds, the
       back end tries to connect to a service on this machine. If the service connection attempt fails, then only
       this particular service is considered offline and the back end automatically switches over to the next
       service. The machine is still considered online and might still be tried for another service.

       Further connection attempts are made to machines or services marked as offline after a specified period of
       time; this is currently hard coded to 30 seconds.

       If there are no more machines to try, the back end as a whole switches to offline mode, and then attempts to
       reconnect every 30 seconds.

   Failover time outs and tuning
       Resolving a server to connect to can be as simple as running a single DNS query or can involve several steps,
       such as finding the correct site or trying out multiple host names in case some of the configured servers are
       not reachable. The more complex scenarios can take some time and SSSD needs to balance between providing
       enough time to finish the resolution process but on the other hand, not trying for too long before falling
       back to offline mode. If the SSSD debug logs show that the server resolution is timing out before a live
       server is contacted, you can consider changing the time outs.

       This section lists the available tunables. Please refer to their description in the sssd.conf(5), manual page.

       dns_resolver_server_timeout
           Time in milliseconds that sets how long would SSSD talk to a single DNS server before trying next one.

           Default: 1000

       dns_resolver_op_timeout
           Time in seconds to tell how long would SSSD try to resolve single DNS query (e.g. resolution of a hostname
           or an SRV record) before trying the next hostname or discovery domain.

           Default: 3

       dns_resolver_timeout
           How long would SSSD try to resolve a failover service. This service resolution internally might include
           several steps, such as resolving DNS SRV queries or locating the site.

           Default: 6

       For LDAP-based providers, the resolve operation is performed as part of an LDAP connection operation.
       Therefore, also the “ldap_opt_timeout” timeout should be set to a larger value than “dns_resolver_timeout”
       which in turn should be set to a larger value than “dns_resolver_op_timeout” which should be larger than
       “dns_resolver_server_timeout”.

SERVICE DISCOVERY
       The service discovery feature allows back ends to automatically find the appropriate servers to connect to
       using a special DNS query. This feature is not supported for backup servers.

   Configuration
       If no servers are specified, the back end automatically uses service discovery to try to find a server.
       Optionally, the user may choose to use both fixed server addresses and service discovery by inserting a
       special keyword, “_srv_”, in the list of servers. The order of preference is maintained. This feature is
       useful if, for example, the user prefers to use service discovery whenever possible, and fall back to a
       specific server when no servers can be discovered using DNS.

   The domain name
       Please refer to the “dns_discovery_domain” parameter in the sssd.conf(5) manual page for more details.

   The protocol
       The queries usually specify _tcp as the protocol. Exceptions are documented in respective option description.

   See Also
       For more information on the service discovery mechanism, refer to RFC 2782.

EXAMPLE
       The following example assumes that SSSD is correctly configured and FOO is one of the domains in the [sssd]
       section. This example shows only configuration of Kerberos authentication; it does not include any identity
       provider.

           [domain/FOO]
           auth_provider = krb5
           krb5_server = 192.168.1.1
           krb5_realm = EXAMPLE.COM

SEE ALSO
       sssd(8), sssd.conf(5), sssd-ldap(5), sssd-ldap-attributes(5), sssd-krb5(5), sssd-simple(5), sssd-ipa(5), sssd-
       ad(5), sssd-files(5), sssd-sudo(5), sssd-session-recording(5), sss_cache(8), sss_debuglevel(8),
       sss_obfuscate(8), sss_seed(8), sssd_krb5_locator_plugin(8), sss_ssh_authorizedkeys(8),
       sss_ssh_knownhostsproxy(8), sssd-ifp(5), pam_sss(8).  sss_rpcidmapd(5) sssd-systemtap(5)

AUTHORS
       The SSSD upstream - https://github.com/SSSD/sssd/

SSSD                                                  10/17/2025                                         SSSD-KRB5(5)
