SSSD-SESSION-RECOR(5)                        File Formats and Conventions                       SSSD-SESSION-RECOR(5)

NAME
       sssd-session-recording - Configuring session recording with SSSD

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page describes how to configure sssd(8) to work with tlog-rec-session(8), a part of tlog package,
       to implement user session recording on text terminals. For a detailed configuration syntax reference, refer to
       the “FILE FORMAT” section of the sssd.conf(5) manual page.

       SSSD can be set up to enable recording of everything specific users see or type during their sessions on text
       terminals. E.g. when users log in on the console, or via SSH. SSSD itself doesn't record anything, but makes
       sure tlog-rec-session is started upon user login, so it can record according to its configuration.

       For users with session recording enabled, SSSD replaces the user shell with tlog-rec-session in NSS responses,
       and adds a variable specifying the original shell to the user environment, upon PAM session setup. This way
       tlog-rec-session can be started in place of the user shell, and know which actual shell to start, once it set
       up the recording.

CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
       These options can be used to configure the session recording.

       scope (string)
           One of the following strings specifying the scope of session recording:

           "none"
               No users are recorded.

           "some"
               Users/groups specified by users and groups options are recorded.

           "all"
               All users are recorded.

           Default: "none"

       users (string)
           A comma-separated list of users which should have session recording enabled. Matches user names as
           returned by NSS. I.e. after the possible space replacement, case changes, etc.

           Default: Empty. Matches no users.

       groups (string)
           A comma-separated list of groups, members of which should have session recording enabled. Matches group
           names as returned by NSS. I.e. after the possible space replacement, case changes, etc.

           NOTE: using this option (having it set to anything) has a considerable performance cost, because each
           uncached request for a user requires retrieving and matching the groups the user is member of.

           Default: Empty. Matches no groups.

       exclude_users (string)
           A comma-separated list of users to be excluded from recording, only applicable with 'scope=all'.

           Default: Empty. No users excluded.

       exclude_groups (string)
           A comma-separated list of groups, members of which should be excluded from recording. Only applicable with
           'scope=all'.

           NOTE: using this option (having it set to anything) has a considerable performance cost, because each
           uncached request for a user requires retrieving and matching the groups the user is member of.

           Default: Empty. No groups excluded.

EXAMPLE
       The following snippet of sssd.conf enables session recording for users "contractor1" and "contractor2", and
       group "students".

           [session_recording]
           scope = some
           users = contractor1, contractor2
           groups = students

SEE ALSO
       sssd(8), sssd.conf(5), sssd-ldap(5), sssd-ldap-attributes(5), sssd-krb5(5), sssd-simple(5), sssd-ipa(5), sssd-
       ad(5), sssd-files(5), sssd-sudo(5), sssd-session-recording(5), sss_cache(8), sss_debuglevel(8),
       sss_obfuscate(8), sss_seed(8), sssd_krb5_locator_plugin(8), sss_ssh_authorizedkeys(8),
       sss_ssh_knownhostsproxy(8), sssd-ifp(5), pam_sss(8).  sss_rpcidmapd(5) sssd-systemtap(5)

AUTHORS
       The SSSD upstream - https://github.com/SSSD/sssd/

SSSD                                                  10/17/2025                                SSSD-SESSION-RECOR(5)
